
                               1 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              December 28, 1982, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

TO STOP THE 'ANARCHY' IN U.S. IMMIGRATION

SECTION: Section A; Page 22, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 414 words


To the Editor:

Joaquin Avila, president of Maldef, the Mexican American Legal Defense Fund
(Op-Ed Dec. 17), is in a better position than most to know that the failure of
state employer-sanction laws to deter illegal immigration, rather than being an
argument against the nowfailed Simpson-Mazzoli bill, is a confirmation of the
ever more urgent need for strong Federal leadership in immigration enforcement.

he states' unfamiliarity with immigration and nationality practice, the
deficiencies of most current ID documents and our courts' uncertainties about
the proper state role in immigration have all worked to undermine the
effectiveness of state laws. In at least one state, California, litigation
supported by special-interest groups, such as Maldef, helped stall enforcement.

The experience clearly shows that strong Federal leadership, based on a
comprehensive, tamperproof, nondiscriminatory ID system, is a must. Mr. Avila's
misgivings notwithstanding, the remarkably low percentage of error and fraud in
the astronomical volume of credit card transactions shows that it is technically
attainable.

And after reading his arguments, I wondered why Maldef opposed the bill at all,
since employers' greed, the porosity of any ID system, the exception planned for
small enterprises and the expanded temporary-workers program would add up to
just as many or more immigrants as ever.

Perhaps Maldef's greatest fear was not that the bill would not have worked but
that it just might have begun to end the current anarchy, in which so many have
a stake, and to channel long-established flows of undocumented immigration into
legal channels.

Mr. Avila mischaracterizes the objectives of immigration reform as ''to stop the
flow of immigrants and to save, for citizens, jobs now held by undocumented
workers.'' More accurately, the bill would have reasserted control over our
borders, once again making the composition and volume of our annual immigration
flow a matter of national choice rather than a process of immigrant
self-selection.

It may well be that we will accept as much or more immigration once we have
reasserted control, but at least we as a society will be able to say it was not
left entirely to chance.  DAVID E. SIMCOX Washington, Dec. 20, 1982

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%);

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES  UNITED STATES (94%);   CALIFORNIA, USA (79%);

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; ILLEGAL ALIENS; LAW AND LEGISLATION
IMMIGRATION (93%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); HISPANIC
AMERICANS (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); LEGISLATION (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT
(77%); FOREIGN LABOR (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT
(73%); BORDER CONTROL (73%); SMALL BUSINESS (72%); CREDIT CARDS (69%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                               2 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 27, 1982, Monday, Late City Final Edition

NEW YORK DAY BY DAY

BYLINE: By Robin Herman and Laurie Johnston

SECTION: Section B; Page 3, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 213 words


Between Two Lands

F or the last year, America has been the drab and barren rooms of a Brooklyn
detention center for 32 Afghans who say they fled their native land last winter
because of Communism and political persecution.

The new year holds no brighter prospects for the refugees in the Flushing Avenue
center as they await deportation hearings and appeals before the Immigration and
Naturalization Service. The Lawyers' Committee for International Human Rights
has been working on their behalf.

''We are 32,'' the Afghans wrote in a letter last week to the American Civil
Liberties Union, asking for its help. ''Most of us been since January '82 in the
detention. All don't know our foult and guilt, but from homelessness away from
our parents and other dears, we have come here and have sought asylum. We are
writing our miserable condition from behind the jail bars to you, and do hope
from your high dignity to pay our attention for our release for the sake of HOLY
CHRISTMAS and NEW YEAR.''

The two-page letter concluded, ''We have nothing to offer, but tearful eyes and
broken hearts and all the time to pray to God, 'God Bless America.' ''

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (94%);

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%);

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%);

COMPANY: AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION  (57%); AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION
(57%);

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION  (57%); AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES
UNION (57%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;AFGHANISTAN; UNITED STATES  UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (94%);

   NEW YORK, USA (90%);   NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%);

SUBJECT: REFUGEES AND EXPATRIATES; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION  IMMIGRANT
DETENTION CENTERS (90%); IMMIGRATION (90%); REFUGEES (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (78%);
DEPORTATION (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (77%); CHRISTMAS (72%); POLITICAL
ASYLUM (72%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                               3 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 27, 1982, Monday, Late City Final Edition

WHAT THE HOUSE SAID IN NOT VOTING AN IMMIGRATION BILL;
News Analysis

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section B; Page 12, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1246 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 26


In refusing to pass a comprehensive immigration bill, Congress made a statement
about immigration policy as profound as any that could have been made through
legislation.

In the House of Representatives, the debate was diffuse but passionate, and most
of it took place between 11 P.M. and 1 A.M. on two nights, so the questions it
raised may be lost on those who renew the campaign for thorough revision of the
immigration law next year. But the questions are important.

The House, living up to its name, represented the diverse regional, political
and economic interests that have a stake in immigration.  Three hundred
amendments were proposd for the House version, and only a few had been dealt
with when the House abandoned work on the bill on the afternoon of Dec. 18.
There was a sharp contrast in the more patrician Senate, which, by a vote of 80
to 19, approved a similar bill sponsored by Senator Alan K. Simpson, Republican
of Wyoming.

Fears Found Behind Tactics

The chief sponsor of the House bill, Representative Romano L.  Mazzoli, Democrat
of Kentucky, initially accused his opponents of using ''dilatory tactics.'' It
soon became clear that those tactics were motivated by deep fears that his
proposal might lead to racial and ethnic discrimination, yet might not be
effective in curtailing illegal immigration. The bill would have required
employers to check documents on all job applicants to determine whether they
were citizens or aliens authorized to work in the United States.

The premise of the bill was that illegal aliens were attracted by job
opportunities, and that employers must therefore be forbidden to hire them. To
enforce that prohibition, the bill would have established fines and prison terms
for employers who knowingly hired illegal aliens. As an offset, the bill offered
legal status to several million illegal aliens who entered the country before
1980.

Supporters of the bill had to make a leap of faith. No one element of the bill,
was very popular, especially not employer sanctions or amnesty for illegal
aliens. But somehow, it was said, the whole would be more popular and effective
than the sum of its parts. In the end, the House of Representatives could not
accept that logic.

Representative Jerry M. Patterson, a California Democrat, asked: ''If we in the
House of Representatives are at odds over so many provisions, what does this
mean? I would like to suggest that our disenchantment with this legislation
mirrors the position of our constituencies.''

Witnesses Were Opposed

Virtually every argument made by opponents of the bill on the floor of the House
had been made, in hearings, by spokesmen for Hispanic American groups, blacks,
labor unions, agricultural producers and other business interests. Somehow the
arguments had more force when they were made by Representatives who are members
of minority groups such as E. (Kika) de la Garza and Mickey Leland of Texas,
Robert Garcia of the Bronx, Edward R. Roybal of California and John Conyers Jr.
of Michigan.

Their speeches were full of emotion, ignited by the knowledge that many members
of Congress wanted to eliminate the amnesty from the bill.

On the House side, there were many more people who knew something about
immigration and they actively participated in the floor debate even if they had
not been exposed to the bill in the Judiciary Committee. They wanted to know
precisely how the bill would affect their districts, which in some cases include
large numbers of Mexican-Americans, and they were not satisfied with the
answers.

Some surprise was expressed that the bill was torpedoed at the last hour after
so much progress. Among people who followed it closely, there was less surprise.
Members of Congress had been much more critical of the bill in their private
comments than in their public statements.

Topic Vulnerable to Politics

As Mr. Mazzoli said, the Democratic leadership of the House gave his bill a low
priority. But Mr. Mazzoli himself perhaps underestimated the partisan political
signifiance of the issue. The experience of the last two weeks suggests that
immigration is a subject highly vulnerable to partisan politics.

''This was not clearly a bipartisan issue, as many people thought it was,'' said
Dale Frederick Swartz, president of the National Immigration, Refugee and
Citizenship Forum, a private nonprofit group. ''The Democrats may have more to
lose. The major elements of the Democratic Party coalition, including blacks,
Hispanics, organized labor and liberal religious groups, have had serious
differences of opinion, but may be in the process of resolving them.''

Mr. Mazzoli worked well with Mr. Simpson and other Republicans, in Congress and
in the Reagan Administration, but he failed to develop the necessary support for
the bill at the top of his own party. The bill sent to the floor of the House
did not satisfy the Democratic floor leader, Representative Jim Wright of Texas.
The Speaker of the House, Thomas P. O'Neill Jr., said that it was not a
Democratic bill, that he was not ''enamored'' of it and that he brought it up
only as a ''courtesy'' to President Reagan.

Opponents Cared More

Ultimately, the bill failed because the opponents cared more deeply about it
than the proponents. The opponents included the people most directly affected:
Texans, Californians and Hispanic Americans. ''I can't find anyone in the State
of Texas who is for this bill,'' said Representative Martin Frost, a Texas
Democrat. Representative Tony Coelho, a Democrat, said, ''There's almost no
support for it in California,'' his home state.

By contrast, the people who are harmed by illegal immigration, the people who
lose jobs to illegal aliens willing to work for lower wages, do not always know
it. In a recession with high unemployment, the economic effects of illegal
immigration cannot easily be separated from the effects of overall fiscal and
monetary policies.

The challenge to the opponents of the Simpson-Mazzoli bill is to propose an
alternative, and they say they intend to do so next year.  Future debate on the
issue is likely to give more weight to foreign policy considerations, including
the economic and political factors that impel people to leave home. Some
supporters of the Simpson-Mazzoli bill, including several State Department
officials, were surprised when the Senate of Mexico adopted a resolution this
month expressing grave concern about the bill's effects on ''the labor and human
rights of migrant workers in the United States.''

A State Department official said: ''I don't think we are prepared to regard the
Mexican Senate resolution as necessarily the viewpoint of the Government of
Mexico on this issue.'' But it certainly buttressed the case for greater
consultation between the two countries.

With high unemployment and economic uncertainty, some members of Congress such
as Representative Dan Lungren, Republican of California, expressed a fear that
there would be growing resentment of immigrants and refugees. Most participants
in the debate said they felt a duty to prevent such a backlash.

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%);

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%);

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (69%);

COMPANY: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES INC (85%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES  UNITED STATES (95%);   CALIFORNIA, USA (79%);   NEW
YORK, NY, USA (69%);

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION; ILLEGAL ALIENS; UNITED
STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT  IMMIGRATION (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%);
LEGISLATION (91%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); ILLEGAL
IMMIGRANTS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (88%); ETHNIC GROUPS (78%); US REPUBLICAN
PARTY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); EMPLOYMENT (78%); LEGISLATORS (78%);
HISPANIC AMERICANS (78%); POLITICS (77%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (70%); RACIAL
DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (70%); RACE & RACISM (70%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH
(70%); ETHNICITY (70%); DISCRIMINATION (65%); LABOR UNIONS (65%); AMNESTY (61%);

 CRIMINAL FINES (50%);

PERSON: ALAN K SIMPSON  (56%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Analysis

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                               4 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 27, 1982, Monday, Late City Final Edition

JOBLESSNESS TAKES TOLL ON CANADA'S POPULATION

BYLINE: By MICHAEL T. KAUFMAN, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1459 words

DATELINE: PORT ALBERNI, British Columbia


Canada, which has always needed a constant flow of settlers to harvest its
plentiful resources, is sharply reducing its immigration quotas and radically
revising demographic projections in the face of high and, in some cases, chronic
unemployment.

Fifteen years ago, a Government study projected that this vast land, the
second-largest in the world, would continue to grow in population until it held
50 million people, double today's 24 million. Now, as scores of one-industry
regions are becoming noindustry regions, such visions have been greatly trimmed.

Lloyd Axworthy, Minister of Employment and Immigration, acknowledged in an
interview earlier this month that current expectations were that Canada's
economic development could sustain only limited population growth and that the
total would level off at around 28 million by the turn of the century.

Internal Migration

At the same time, Mr. Axworthy said that Canada faces a period of internal
migration as people moved in search of jobs.

''A major part of our economic problem is that we have the wrong people in the
wrong places doing the wrong jobs, and we need to get things back into
synchronization,'' Mr. Axworthy, a Princeton-trained urban planner from
Winnipeg, said in his Ottawa office.

Just last month, Mr. Axworthy cut back the annual immigration quota to 105,000
from 140,000. Since refugee programs were not cut, the reduction affected
skilled immigrants, the people that Canada had sought, particularly in the
postwar period, for work in primary industries related to mining, forestry,
energy, agriculture and fishing.

But these once labor-intensive industries have in recent years become
overwhelmingly capital-absorbing. The huge mechanized farms of the prairies are
run essentially by families using several million dollars' worth of equipment.

Mining is only rarely a pick-and-shovel operation, relying more and more on
giant earthmovers. And even the ax-wielding lumberjack who symbolized frontier
employment is being replaced by diesel machines that uproot giant trees.

Jobless Rate at 12.4%

Such transformations in work forces are taking place all over the world, but
nowhere are they more sweeping and dramatic than in Canada, where
single-industry cities and towns stretch from the Atlantic to the Pacific, and
where the overall unemployment rate stands at 12.4 percent.

There are localities such as this beautifully situated lumber town of 20,000
people, which three years ago had the second-highest percapita income of any
city in the nation, nearly $22,000 (Canadian). Today, 6,000 people are
collecting full or partial unemployment benefits, while another 2,000 have
exhausted these yearlong payments and are on provincial welfare programs.

At the offices of the International Woodworkers of America, the predominant
union in the region, officers sharply criticized the Government for permitting
the export of untrimmed logs to the Orient and for maintaining immigration at
too high a level. They also expressed concern that even with an economic
recovery, employment for mill hands and lumbermen would not reach levels of the
past.

''None of us now thinks our kids will easily find jobs in the industry,'' said
Nick Bos, a union vice president.  But at the moment, forestry is all there is,
except for fishing, and a recent Government report made it clear that the major
problem of the Port Alberni fishing fleet was that there were too many fishermen
and not enough fish.

Government Appraisal

That report is apparently being echoed in a still confidential Government
appraisal of the 33,000-worker Newfoundland fishery.  According to Government
officials, it suggests that in terms of efficient competition with foreign
factory ships, the inshore fishermen, who have been setting out in their boats
for generations, could be replaced by a few modern ocean trawlers.

Stories of similar dislocations recur every few days and form a regular feature
of Canadian newspapers. And while it is not always clear which layoffs are the
temporary result of market fluctuations and which reflect long-term reduction of
labor forces, the two are closely linked.

''A lot of companies are using the recession as a time to get lean,'' Mr.
Axworthy said. ''In the 70's we had a growth of employment rate of close to 5
percent a year, the highest in the world.'' Some of that growth and the high
salaries that accompanied it were, he suggested, undisciplined, reducing
productivity levels.  Loss of productivity in turn eroded Canada's advantage in
international trade, on which this relatively underpopulated national market
must depend.

Widely fluctuating fortunes are common in the boom-and-bust cycles that plague
all commodity exporting economies, and Canada has been through this experience
before. What makes it different this time, and worse, economists and
demographers say, is the knowledge that a return to prosperous sales is not
likely to restore high employment.  In an economy that may need additional
consumers more than it needs additional producers, this translates into a social
and political challenge.

Social Planning Urged

Howard Pawley, the Prime Minister of Manitoba whose New Democratic Party heads
what he describes as the only social democratic Government in North America,
said in a recent interview that the country needed planning for a society where
more and more people would be employed in the service sector.

Mr. Axworthy, for his part, said he was proud of job-sharing programs under
which workers in retrenching industries share jobs and receive partial
unemployment insurance. He said he hoped that such payments would increasingly
enable the partly idled workers to take advantage of retraining programs.

He also mentioned a need for diversified secondary industries.  Traditionally,
he said, ''Canadians have looked to the huge megaprojects to help them, but now
we see that these approaches have failed, and what we want is to encourage the
formation of hundreds of smaller, locally based activities.''

Mr. Axworthy has also emphasized another traditional Canadian economic strategy
- Government financing of transportation as a means of priming the pump for
industrial suppliers. He said that a $3 billion program for modernizing the
railroads had already led to the formation of a number of companies that are
developing internationally competitive products and techniques.

Jobless Are Moving

But he acknowledged that a great many Canadians would have to leave their homes
as traditional employment patterns continued to change.  Recent visits to dozens
of small and large Canadian settlements suggest that internal movements have
already begun. Towns such as Asbestos, Quebec, and Uranium City, Saskatchewan,
have lost jobs and are losing people as demand for the ores they were named
after has dropped sharply.

Some of the 9l,829 people who came to Sudbury, Ontario, because the city lies
atop the world's richest nickel deposit are drifting away now that unemployment
has hovered above 30 percent for seven months.  Spokesmen for the Toronto-based
Inco Ltd., the town's major employer, said that even after its idled mine and
smelter return to full operation, ''We will still have between a half and a
third of the staff we had a few years back and people can no longer expect jobs
with us just because their fathers and uncles worked here.''

For the first time in nearly 100 years, there is no mining activity in the
Yukon. With the closing of the huge Cyprus Anvil lead and zinc mine, the
territory's rail service has stopped and 5,000 of the 26,000 people in the
region have already left. Schefferville, Quebec, a community of 4,000, is facing
extinction next spring when the mine operated by the Iron Ore Company of Canada,
the isolated town's only reason for existence, shuts down.

And earlier this month, the Bowater newsprint mill that was by far the largest
employer in Corner Brook, Newfoundland's second-largest city, announced it would
dismiss 750 workers because of a sharp decline in European demand for newsprint.

Mayor George Hutchings called the loss catastrophic for the community of 33,000,
and said it was equal to the loss of 20,000 jobs in a city such as Toronto.

COUNTRY: CANADA (98%);

STATE: BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (94%); MANITOBA, CANADA (79%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CANADA  CANADA (98%);   BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (94%); MANITOBA,
CANADA (79%);

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS;
IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; POPULATION; MINES AND MINING; FORESTS AND FORESTRY
IMMIGRATION (93%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); POPULATION ESTIMATES &
PROJECTIONS (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS
(90%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); LOGGING INDUSTRY
(78%); POPULATION GROWTH (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (77%);

 LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); LAND USE PLANNING (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%);
INTERVIEWS (75%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (74%); REFUGEES (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS
(72%); TRENDS (71%); CITIES (66%); CITY LIFE (66%); POPULATION SIZE (57%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                               5 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 24, 1982, Friday, Late City Final Edition

AROUND THE NATION;
U.S. Will Permit Entry Of Rumanian Girl, 16

SECTION: Section A; Page 8, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 133 words


The Immigration and Naturalization Service reversed its earlier decision and
granted permission yesterday for a 16-year-old Rumanian girl to join her family
in the United States.

The girl, Ildiko Zudor, is expected to leave Bucharest next week for a reunion
with her parents in Philadelphia, according to H.  Ronald Klasko, an attorney
for the Zudor family.

Rumanian officials granted the girl an exit passport last January, the family
said. But United States immigration officials denied her application for entry
because the girl's parents, Alexandru and Edith Zudor, who had come to the
United States seeking medical aid for their 12-year-old son, were denied
political asylum. They said they planned to reapply for asylum at a deportation
hearing next week.

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); ROMANIA (94%);

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%);

CITY: BUCHAREST, ROMANIA (56%);

COMPANY: IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE  (93%); IMMIGRATION &
NATURALIZATION SERVICE (93%);

ORGANIZATION: IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE  (93%); IMMIGRATION &
NATURALIZATION SERVICE (93%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; RUMANIA  UNITED STATES (97%); ROMANIA (94%);
PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%);   BUCHAREST, ROMANIA (56%);

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; CHILDREN AND YOUTH
IMMIGRATION (93%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); POLITICAL
ASYLUM (90%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (88%); DEPORTATION (73%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                               6 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 24, 1982, Friday, Late City Final Edition

Oregon Guru Rebuffed in Bid On Permanent U.S. Residency

BYLINE: UPI

SECTION: Section B; Page 4, Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 152 words

DATELINE: PORTLAND, Ore., Dec. 23


Immigration officials have refused to grant permanent residence status to
Bhagwan Shree Rajneesh, a guru whose disciples took political control of the
Oregon town of Antelope.

Followers of the mystic said they would appeal the decision, which was made
known Wednesday.  Immigration and Naturalization Service officials rejected two
applications for the 51-year-old guru, who lives on a commune called
Rajneeshpuram.

The guru, who is Indian, sought residence as a religious leader and because he
needed medical treatment available only in the United States.

Carl Houseman of the immigration service in Portland said the mystic did not
qualify as a religious leader and ''false and misleading statements were made
concerning his dire need for medical treatment.''

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%);

STATE: OREGON, USA (97%);

CITY: PORTLAND, OR, USA (91%);

COMPANY: IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE  (58%); IMMIGRATION &
NATURALIZATION SERVICE (58%);

ORGANIZATION: IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE  (58%); IMMIGRATION &
NATURALIZATION SERVICE (58%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;ANTELOPE (ORE); UNITED STATES; INDIA  UNITED STATES (97%);
OREGON, USA (97%);   PORTLAND, OR, USA (91%);

SUBJECT: RELIGION AND CHURCHES; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION  IMMIGRATION (92%);
RELIGION (91%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%);

PERSON: BHAGWAN SHREE RAJNEESH  (92%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                               7 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

             December 22, 1982, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

AN AFRICAN POET AT NORTHWESTERN LOSES A STEP IN DEPORTATION FIGHT

BYLINE: By NATHANIEL SHEPPARD Jr., Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section B; Page 9, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 631 words

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Dec. 21


In a letter to Immigration and Naturalization authorities here, the State
Department has said it knows of no reason why Dennis Brutus, a black poet in
exile for 10 years from southern Africa, should not be deported.

Mr. Brutus, a 58-year-old professor of African and English literature at
Northwestern University, has for a year been fighting deportation.

Mr. Brutus contends that if he is deported he would be a target for assasination
by the South African secret police because of his criticism of the apartheid
policies in southern Africa.

As evidence Mr. Brutus and his supporters say that he has been imprisoned in
South Africa and shot by the secret police.

Official Concurs on Fears

In his advisory opinion to immigration authorities, Lawrence Arthur, chief of
the asylum division, Bureau of Human Rights and Humanitarian Affairs, said his
agency concurred with Mr. Brutus that he had ''well-founded fear of persecution
in South Africa.'' He added, however, that Mr. Brutus had not demonstrated that
he faced such persecution in his home country, Zimbabwe. Zimbabwe, now a black
governed nation, was Rhodesia, a white-governed British territory, when Mr.
Brutus was born there.

''He claims fear of persecution by agents of the South African Government should
he return to Zimbabwe and believes that the Zimbabwean authorities will prove
unable to offer effective protection to him,'' Mr. Arthur's opinion said. ''He
cites the assassination of a prominent African National Congress official in
Zimbabwe to support this belief.'' The citation was to Joe Gqabi, who was
machine-gunned last summer.

''We would point out,'' the Arthur letter continued, ''that it has never been
proven that this assassination was committed by South African agents. In this
connection, we note that an adult son of Mr.  Brutus lives in Zimbabwe,
apparently without threat to his safety.

''Nevertheless, given Mr. Brutus's expressed fear of return to Zimbabwe we would
not recommend that he be returned there.'' Mr. Arthur said Mr. Brutus had lived
and worked in Britain after he left Africa in 1966 and entered the United States
from there many times, using no@nimmigrant visas.

Said He Would Return to Britain

To obtain such visas, he said, Mr. Brutus listed a home abroad to which he
intended to return. He listed Britain, Mr. Arthur said.  Mr. Arthur said it is
his agency's opinion that Mr. Brutus could return to Britain, where his wife
lives, upon application for reentry.

Mr. Brutus said he was not sure that he could get a permanent visa in Britain.
But in any case, he said, the human rights aspect of his case in the United
States was more important.

''The reasons for excluding me from the United States are not good ones,'' he
said. ''The U.S. claims to take a position in support of human rights and
democracy but often does not.

Mr. Brutus's problems began not as a result of any wrongdoing on his part. When
he made periodic application for extension of the temporary United States visa,
which allowed him to work, he was using his British passport.

His Passport Was Replaced

But when Rhodesia separated from Britain and then became independent as Zimbabwe
in 1980, Mr. Brutus's British passport was revoked. Zimbabwe issued a new one,
but he was late in applying for an extension here. Then for six months, an
immigration office here could not find his file.

By continuing to teach at Northwestern, he was placed in violation of a law that
forbids employment by an alien with an expired visa.  A deportion hearing here
is scheduled for Jan. 10.

COUNTRY: ZIMBABWE (97%); AFRICA (95%); SOUTH AFRICA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%);
UNITED KINGDOM (93%); SOUTHERN AFRICA (91%);

CITY: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (53%);

COMPANY: NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY  (90%); NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (90%); AFRICAN
NATIONAL CONGRESS (ANC)  (54%); AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS (ANC) (54%);

ORGANIZATION: NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY  (90%); NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (90%);
AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS (ANC)  (54%); AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS (ANC) (54%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; SOUTH AFRICA, REPUBLIC OF; ZIMABABWE  ZIMBABWE
(97%); AFRICA (95%); SOUTH AFRICA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM
(93%); SOUTHERN AFRICA (91%);   INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (53%);

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; BLACKS (IN US); DEPORTATION; IMMIGRATION AND
EMIGRATION  IMMIGRATION (93%); DEPORTATION (93%); POETRY (90%); NATURALIZATION
(90%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (89%); IMMIGRATION LAW (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS (88%);
POLITICAL ASYLUM (78%); LITERATURE (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%);



PERSON: DENNIS VINCENT BRUTUS  (96%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: photo of Dennis Brutus

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                               8 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 19, 1982, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

'Generous' Vote Tally;
Shows Holiday Spirit;
Spirit

BYLINE: Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 26, Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 124 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 18


Saturday sessions of the Senate and the House of Representatives are none too
popular with lawmakers who have other things to do with their time one week
before Christmas.

There were only a few dozen members on the floor of the House when
Representative Romano L. Mazzoli, a Kentucky Democrat who is the chief sponsor
of an immigration bill being considered by the House, moved to take up the bill
today.

There was a roar of laughter when the results of a vote on Mr.  Mazzoli's
request were announced: 244 to 7, according to the House Speaker, Thomas P.
O'Neill Jr. of Massachusetts.

However, subsequent quorum calls and roll-call votes showed that more than 300
of the 435 House members were on Capitol Hill.

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%);

STATE: KENTUCKY, USA (92%);

COMPANY: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES INC (92%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES  UNITED STATES (94%);   KENTUCKY, USA (92%);

SUBJECT: LAW AND LEGISLATION; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; UNITED STATES POLITICS
AND GOVERNMENT  LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); LEGISLATORS (91%); CHRISTMAS (90%);
LEGISLATION (88%); POLITICS (88%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (70%); IMMIGRATION (69%);



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                               9 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 19, 1982, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

DISCUSSION ENDED ON ALIENS MEASURE

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 29, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 890 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 18


A comprehensive bill to revise the nation's immigration laws seemed to be dead
today, barring an unexpected extension of this post-election session of
Congress.

The House of Representatives finished eight and a half hours of deliberations on
the bill with nearly 300 proposed amendments still awaiting consideration.

Representative Romano L. Mazzoli, the chief sponsor of the bill, looked downcast
and disappointed as he left the floor of the House and told reporters this
afternoon, ''Unless there is some kind of divine intervention, I guess probably
this is it.''

Mr. Mazzoli, a Kentucky Democrat, said that ''the search for perfection, the
futile, quixotic search for perfection,'' had made it impossible for the House
to complete action on the bill. Last August the Senate passed a comprehensive
immigration bill generally similar to the one debated on the floor of the House
for the last three days.

A Combination of Opponents

An unusual combination of Hispanic-American organizations, blacks, labor unions,
business interests and agricultural producers worked against key provisions of
the bill, especially the section establishing fines and prison terms for
employers who knowingly hire illegal aliens.

Mr. Mazzoli said he still hoped that this Congress would pass the immigration
bill that he introduced with Senator Alan K. Simpson, Republican of Wyoming. But
the Representative conceded that such action was highly unlikely in the final
days of a session focusing almost exclusively on appropriations bills.

''We could beat any of those amendments,'' he said, referring to proposed
changes sought by critics of the bill, ''but I don't know if we could beat them
all.''

In the course of debate, it became clear that the amendments were not merely a
delaying tactic, but a true reflection of deep concerns shared by many members
of the House.

Critics Dominate Proceedings

Opponents of the bill dominated today's proceedings as they offered one proposal
after another to reduce what they said was the bill's potential for
discrimination against Hispanic Americans and members of other ethnic or racial
minority groups.

The bill would require all job applicants to offer identification documents to
demonstrate to employers that they were either citizens or aliens authorized to
work in the United States.

It would also establish civil and criminal penalties for employers who knowingly
hired illegal aliens. But it would offer legal status to several million illegal
aliens who entered the United States before 1980.

Representative E. (Kika) de la Garza, a Texas Democrat who is chairman of the
House Agriculture Committee, said that even though his family had been in the
Southwest for 250 years ''anyone who looks like me is going to have to identify
himself every time he asks for a job.''

'Imposition on Individual Liberty'

Mr. de la Garza said the identification provision was ''an imposition on
individual liberty,'' and for this reason he opposed the bill. ''People have
trouble pronouncing my name in the realms of Capitol Hill,'' he said. ''Can you
imagine what happens if I show up looking for a job in Alabama or west Texas or
Kentucky, maybe?''

Supporters of the bill contend that employers could not discriminate because
they would have to examine documents for citizens as well as aliens. But
Representative Tony Coelho, a California Democrat, said that employers would be
much more likely to suspect the authenticity of the documents offered by Mexican
Americans, and maintained that serious discrimination might result.

Representative Dan Lungren, a California Republican who supports the bill, said
the problem of illegal immigration would not go away.  If the bill is not passed
the legislative process can start over again next year, he said, but it was
considered unlikely that the next Congress would establish a comprehensive set
of immigration controls just before a Presidential election.

Thus, Congress will probably not give serious consideration to the subject again
for five or six years, Mr. Lungren said, warning that at that time ''we will be
tempted to pass a bill that is Draconian in its sweep and detail.''

Democratic Leaders Criticized

Representative E. Clay Shaw Jr., Republican of Florida, complained of what he
said was the ''shabby way in which the leadership has treated this particular
bill.'' The general debate began after 10 P.M. Thursday and Friday.

In his remarks to reporters this afternoon Mr. Mazzoli also expressed some
irritation at the way in which the bill had been handled by the Democratic
leaders of the House. ''All we needed was time,'' he said, ''and the leadership
felt that other things were somehow more important. I would dispute that
seriously.''

The Speaker of the House, Thomas P. O'Neill Jr. of Massachusetts, said the
Democratic leaders had agreed to bring up the bill ''as a courtesy'' to
President Reagan.

The Administration, especially the Department of Justice, has strongly supported
the measure, saying it would permit the United States to re-establish control of
its borders.

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%);

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES  UNITED STATES (97%);   TEXAS, USA (79%); KENTUCKY,
USA (79%);

SUBJECT: LAW AND LEGISLATION; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION  IMMIGRATION (92%);
LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); IMMIGRATION LAW (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%);
ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (89%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); ETHNIC GROUPS (78%); FOREIGN
LABOR (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY
(77%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (72%); RACE & RACISM (72%); LABOR UNIONS (67%);
CRIMINAL FINES (66%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (66%);

PERSON: ALAN K SIMPSON  (55%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              10 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 19, 1982, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

THE WORLD;
Thatcher Loses But Stays On

BYLINE: By Henry Giniger, Milt Freudenheim and Carlyle C. Douglas

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4, Column 2; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 202 words


The vote last week didn't bring down the Government but it did point up economic
and racial tensions now besetting Britain. Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher's
cabinet suffered its first major defeat in the House of Commons on a bill to
relax immigration rules in some instances and tighten them in others.

Citing Mrs. Thatcher's promise to curb immigration from Asia, 20 right-wing
Conservatives deserted and joined with opposition Laborites and Liberals to
defeat the bill, 290 to 272. The opposition objected to provisions that sought
to discourage immigrant men from entering Britain through bogus marriages to
naturalized female citizens. Labor and Liberal members saw this provision as
sexist and racist while Conservative dissidents took a dim view of provisions
that would ease immigration for some categories. High unemployment and violence
in minority-dominated areas of British cities have made immigration one of the
country's most hotly debated problems.
---------------------------------------------------------------------

Henry Giniger, Milt Frdeudenheim and Carlyle C. Douglas

COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (92%);

CITY: DOUGLAS, ISLE OF MAN (50%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;GREAT BRITAIN  UNITED KINGDOM (92%);   DOUGLAS, ISLE OF MAN (50%);

SUBJECT: LAW AND LEGISLATION; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION  IMMIGRATION (92%);
BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); PRIME
MINISTERS (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%);
BRITISH PARLIAMENT (78%); NATURALIZATION (77%); IMMIGRATION LAW (77%); NEWS
BRIEFS (74%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%);

PERSON: MARGARET THATCHER  (93%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              11 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              December 18, 1982, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

AROUND THE NATION;
26 on Coast Indicted In Alien Smuggling Ring

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1; Page 12, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 164 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO, Dec. 17


Twenty-six people have been indicted on charges growing out of what the Federal
authorities described as a major ring smuggling Mexicans into the United States.

The 144-count indictment charged the 26 with conspiracy, bribery of a Federal
immigration official and transportation of illegal aliens, United States
Attorney Peter Nunez said.

According to the indictment on Thursday, a Border Patrol investigator, Hector
Encinas, was paid about $40,000 in bribes for information about immigration
checkpoints around the Salton Sea, which is 150 miles southeast of Los Angeles.

Mr. Encinas, however, was pretending to be corrupt and eventually became so
trusted he was made bookkeeper for the alleged ring, Mr. Nunez said. Another
investigator, Ron Cooper, posed as a former convict and was hired as a driver
for one of the ring's members, Mr. Nunez said.

Edward O'Connor, a regional immigration director, said the ring frequently
abused, raped and robbed the aliens it smuggled.

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%);

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%);

CITY: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (93%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CALIFORNIA  UNITED STATES (95%);   CALIFORNIA, USA (93%);   SAN
DIEGO, CA, USA (93%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%);

SUBJECT: SMUGGLING; ILLEGAL ALIENS  INDICTMENTS (95%); SMUGGLING (93%); ILLEGAL
IMMIGRANTS (91%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); IMMIGRATION (90%); ALIEN SMUGGLING
(90%); ORGANIZED CRIME (90%); BRIBERY (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%);

 JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (88%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (87%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL
BORDERS (72%); BORDER CONTROL (72%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              12 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              December 18, 1982, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

DEBATE IS HEATED OVER IMMIGRATION

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 13, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 799 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 17


The House of Representatives continued debate today on a comprehensive
immigration bill, and supporters of the measure said its fate depended on the
length of the current postelection session of Congress.

From 10:25 Thursday night to 12:25 this morning, the House debated the bill,
which, according to a Senate report, ''represents the first comprehensive
immigration reform effort in the United States in 30 years.''

Representative Edward R. Roybal, Democrat of California, complained, ''We took
time during the day to debate a bill that deals only with dirt and wild animals
and the wilderness of this nation, but late at night we debate a bill that
affects millions of individuals.''

The House bill, like one passed by the Senate in August, tries to halt the
influx of illegal aliens by forbidding employers to hire them. The bills would
establish civil and criminal penalties for knowingly hiring illegal aliens, but
they would also offer legal status to several million illegal aliens who entered
the United States before 1980.

More Than 3.5 Million Aliens

The number of people who would qualify for the amnesty is not known. The Census
Bureau has estimated that there were 3.5 million to 6 million illegal aliens in
the country in 1978. Many experts say the number has probably increased since
then.

Congress is expected to adjourn in the next few days. Supporters of the
immigration bill said a parliamentary tangle in the Senate over a stopgap
spending bill and a proposal to increase the Federal gasoline tax, might give
the House time to finish work on immigration.

Representative Romano L. Mazzoli, Democrat of Kentucky, the chief sponsor of the
immigration bill, said, ''The only thing we have going for us is gridlock in the
Senate.'' He added that supporters of the bill were confident they could answer
any opponents' arguments if they had sufficient time.

Groups in Opposition

The eagerness of lawmakers to return home was thus a major obstacle to passage
of the bill. In addition, Hispanic groups, the American Civil Liberties Union,
the Chamber of Commerce of the United States and many growers of fruit and
vegetables oppose the bill, especially the section establishing employer
sanctions.

When the majority leader, Representative Jim Wright, Democrat of Texas, said
that the bill would probably be debated again Saturday, there was hissing from
members who believe that the legislation should not be taken up.

The Speaker, Thomas P. O'Neill Jr., said, ''I'm not enamored of the bill myself,
to be perfectly truthful.'' But he said he had allowed the bill to come up
because he had received numerous requests from Attorney General William French
Smith and from Representative Peter W. Rodino Jr., chairman of the Judiciary
Committee.

Mr. Rodino, Democrat of New Jersey, said he had been urging his colleagues to
deal with the problem of illegal aliens for 10 years.  Since then, ''the problem
has grown much worse,'' he said, adding, ''I do not believe this Government and
the Congress should tolerate further delay.''

''Further delays,'' he said, ''will, in effect, regularize the current situation
of an underground and exploitable segment of our population, beyond the
protection of our laws.''

He defended the bill's amnesty provision, saying there was no way to ''round up
millions of people and deport them without considering each individual's
circumstances.''

Representative Don Edwards, Democrat of California, who has spent much of his
House career working on the civil rights of racial and ethnic minority groups,
opposed the immigration bill. He said it ''accelerates the potential for
increased violations of civil and constitutional rights.''

The possibility of racial discrimination is inherent in the employer sanctions,
he said, and ''employer sanctions are the heart of the bill.''

Representative Dan Lungren, a California Republican, said discrimination was
already a fact of life for illegal aliens living here as ''second-class
citizens.'' He supported the bill and lamented the inability of the United
States to control the movement of aliens across its borders. ''When a law is not
enforced year after year after year, what does that do to our credibility?'' he
asked.

Mr. Lungren, Mr. Rodino and Mr. Mazzoli all denied that the bill would encourage
discrimination against Hispanic workers or members of other minority groups. But
Representative John Conyers Jr., Democrat of Michigan, said virtually no
Hispanic groups supported the bill.  ''Don't they know anything about their own
problems?'' he asked.

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%);

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%);

COMPANY: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES INC (92%);   US CENSUS BUREAU  (55%); US
CENSUS BUREAU (55%);

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU  (55%); US CENSUS BUREAU (55%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES  UNITED STATES (98%);   CALIFORNIA, USA (79%);

SUBJECT: LAW AND LEGISLATION; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; ILLEGAL ALIENS; HIRING
AND PROMOTION; LABOR  LEGISLATION (93%); IMMIGRATION (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES
(92%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (91%); LEGISLATORS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%);
APPROPRIATIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); FOREIGN LABOR (78%); US FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT (78%); IMMIGRATION LAW (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS
(73%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (73%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (73%); AMNESTY (73%);
CENSUS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (68%); HUMAN RIGHTS
ORGANIZATIONS (66%); FUEL TAX (50%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (50%);

PERSON: JAMES F WRIGHT  (52%); JAMES F WRIGHT (52%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: photo of visitors to Capital Hill

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              13 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 17, 1982, Friday, Late City Final Edition

THATCHER CABINET LOSES VOTE ON BILL

BYLINE: By JON NORDHEIMER, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 10, Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 391 words

DATELINE: LONDON, Dec. 16


Right-wing Conservatives joined forces with opposition members today to hand
Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher her first major parliamentary defeat by voting
down a bill intended to relax immigration.

Twenty members of Mrs. Thatcher's Conservative Party voted against her
Government, helping to produce the 290-to-272 defeat in the Commons.

The rebellious Tories voted against the bill on the ground that it did not keep
a 1979 election promise to curb Asian immigration.  Opposition Labor and Liberal
members denounced the proposal as racially and sexually discriminatory. The
defeat of the bill was not considered important enough to bring down the
Government.

It was not immediately clear which side would benefit by a rewriting of the
bill, which was intended to relax immigration rules as applied to naturalized
female citizens and to put an end to the practice of immigrants entering by the
arrangement of bogus marriages. The law had been prepared by Home Secretary
William Whitelaw, who had come under fire from elements in his party for taking
too liberal a stance on the immigration question.

Prompt Action Urged

Mrs. Thatcher later told the House of Commons that her Government would not be
pressed into a quick revision of the bill, which must be presented again within
40 days.

''If the Home Secretary is properly to consider the effect of the debate last
night and the views expressed,'' she said, ''we must have time to do so.''

David Steel, leader of the Liberals, called for prompt action on the measure
that ''will take account of the view of the great majority of members.''

The bill was the Government's attempt to set rules under which immigrant women
with British citizenship could send for non-British spouses or fiances, a right
already held by all male citizens and by women born in Britain.

In an attempt to discourage a growing practice of bogus marriages, arranged for
the sole purpose of gaining a man's admission to Britain, the legislation
provided for the deportation of immigrant men whose marriages failed in less
than two years. And male fiances were to be permitted entry only if the marriage
took place within six months.

COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (92%);

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (93%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;GREAT BRITAIN  UNITED KINGDOM (92%);   LONDON, ENGLAND (93%);

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; LAW AND
LEGISLATION  IMMIGRATION (92%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (91%); PRIME MINISTERS
(90%); LIBERALISM (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%);
POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); BRITISH PARLIAMENT (90%); WOMEN (79%); LEGISLATIVE
BODIES (78%); POLITICS (78%); NATURALIZATION (77%); IMMIGRATION LAW (77%); RACE
& RACISM (76%); DEPORTATION (72%);

PERSON: MARGARET THATCHER  (96%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              14 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 17, 1982, Friday, Late City Final Edition

HOUSE BEGINS ITS DEBATE ON IMMIGRATION BILL AS ADJOURNMENT NEARS

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 22, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 860 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 16


The House of Representatives began an impassioned debate on a comprehensive
immigration bill today, with opponents complaining that Congress had too little
time left to finish work on the legislation.

By a vote of 257 to 137, the House agreed to bring the bill to the floor under a
rule permitting five hours of general debate. It set no limit on the number of
amendments that could be offered.

Representative Romano L. Mazzoli, Democrat of Kentucky, the chief sponsor of the
legislation, said it had been studied and ''worked over more carefully than
perhaps any other piece of legislation'' in this Congress. He said 300 witnesses
testified on the bill in 100 hours of hearings over 14 days.

In August the Senate voted, 80 to 19, to approve a somewhat similar bill,
sponsored by Senator Alan K. Simpson, Republican of Wyoming. Both measures are
designed to stem the flow of illegal aliens by establishing a system of fines
and prison terms for employers who knowingly hire them.

Would Offer Amnesty

The bills would also offer an amnesty to several million illegal aliens who
entered the United States before 1980. In addition, they would require employers
to examine passports, Social Security cards, birth certificates or other
documents to verify that job applicants were either United States citizens or
aliens authorized to work in this country.

Opponents of the bill urged that their colleagues not even take it up.
Representative F. James Sensenbrenner Jr., Republican of Wisconsin, said: ''This
is a complicated bill. It is not something that should be taken up at a time
when most members are absent in the waning days of a Congressional session.''

He said the amnesty would have a ''tremendous'' ripple effect, permitting aliens
to bring in their children, brothers and sisters from abroad.

The bill is known as the Immigration Reform and Control Act, but Representative
Edward R. Roybal, Democrat of California, said it would provide ''neither
control nor reform.'' The complexity and importance of the bill, he said, were
reflected in the fact that members have filed nearly 300 amendments for possible
consideration.

The Speaker of the House, Thomas P. O'Neill Jr., Democrat of Massachusetts, said
earlier this week that even if the House passed some version of the bill, there
would not be enough time for a conference committee to reconcile differences
with the Senate. But Mr. Mazzoli and other supporters of the bill have kept
pushing for it. If it is not passed before final adjournment, the legislation
dies, and the next Congress would have to start work on the issue anew in
January. Congress is expected to adjourn over the weekend or early next week.

Administration Backs Bill

Mr. O'Neill said today that he had told aides to President Reagan that ''we are
bringing up his immigration bill and his Caribbean Basin bill - these are not
basically Democratic bills - because of Congressional courtesy to the President
of the United States,'' so Congress could ''act its will on them.''

The Reagan Administration has strongly supported the immigration bill, saying it
would permit the United States to re-establish control of its borders. But 72
Republicans joined 65 Democrats in voting against the resolution to bring the
bill to the floor today.

Representative E. Clay Shaw Jr., Republican of Florida, spoke in favor of the
bill, saying, ''The problems of unemployment are absolutely aggravated by the
fact that we do not have control of our borders.'' The bill, he said, will solve
''many of the social problems of this country.''

But Representative Robert Garcia, Democrat of the Bronx, who is chairman of the
Congressional Hispanic Caucus, said, ''Blaming undocumented immigrants for
America's unemployment problems is scapegoating.''

Employers 'as Judge and Jury'

The bill ''on the surface, on paper, looks good,'' Mr. Garcia said, ''but it
will allow employers to act as judge and jury with respect to prospective
employees who speak with an accent or look different.'' There should be
''targeted enforcement of the existing labor law'' rather than a new system of
''employer sanctions,'' he added.

Mr. Garcia said he saw the bill as a first step toward a national identification
card, which would be not only an expensive project but also ''an infringement on
civil liberties.'' The House bill, like its Senate counterpart, gives the
President three years to develop a ''secure system to determine employment
eligibility'' for citizens as well as aliens, but the bills do not specify what
techniques should be used.

Representative Hamilton Fish Jr., Republican of upstate New York, said ''the
genius of the Simpson-Mazzoli bill is reflected in its balance of competing
interests:'' tougher enforcement of immigration controls, a legalization program
for illegal aliens and a new system for adjudicating claims for asylum.

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (69%);

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%);

COMPANY: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES INC (92%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES  UNITED STATES (95%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (69%);
CALIFORNIA, USA (79%);

SUBJECT: LAW AND LEGISLATION; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; ILLEGAL ALIENS
IMMIGRATION (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); LEGISLATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN
PARTY (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATORS
(78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (78%); IMMIGRATION LAW

 (78%); APPROVALS (74%); TESTIMONY (73%); WITNESSES (69%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH
(67%); AMNESTY (67%); US PRESIDENTS (66%); CRIMINAL FINES (53%);

PERSON: F JAMES SENSENBRENNER JR  (54%); F JAMES SENSENBRENNER JR (54%); RONALD
REAGAN (50%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              15 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              December 16, 1982, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

Immigration and Purity

SECTION: Section A; Page 26, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 479 words


What do good conservatives think about immigration? The same thing, chances are,
that good liberals do. Probably no issue lends itself less to partisan ideology
- or attracts more centrist agreement. Yet paradoxically, that very quality
explains the peril hovering over the immigration bill to come up in the House
today.

The Senate overwhelmingly approved the bill last fall, and by every sign the
House would do the same if only there is a vote today. But that may not happen;
this painfully achieved proposal is not pure enough for extremists on both ends.
If they succeed in drowning the bill with dozens of perfectionist amendments,
the opportunity of a generation will sink with it.

Unlimited immigration was a need, and a glory, of the undeveloped American past.
Yet no one believes America can still support it. We must choose how many people
to admit, and which ones. That can be done only if we can control the borders.
Otherwise, a population troubled by hard times will slam the Golden Door. As the
Senate debate demonstrated, there's a rising, ugly nativist sentiment to keep
out not only the illegal gate-crashers but also legitimate entrants like the
sister from Italy, the refugee from the Soviet Union, the physician from
Nigeria, the grocer from South Korea.

To do that would defile America's historic image; worse, it would do practical
harm. All Americans prize the vitamin shots of energy, ambition and skills that
legal immigrants keep injecting into our society. But illegal aliens take jobs
and social welfare funds that might otherwise go to poor Americans - and extract
a price in public tolerance.

The surest way to avert the rising exclusionist sentiment is to pass the
carefully balanced Simpson-Mazzoli bill. On the one side, it meets a humane
need: amnesty for illegal aliens who have been here for years. That is
essential, if only to free them from a cloud of exploitation and fear. But
without tougher enforcement, amnesty would only encourage more illegal
immigration.

That's why the bill would also create a practical form of enforcement: through
employment. At present, if an employer hires illegals only they are subject to
prosecution. The Simpson-Mazzoli bill would make the employer culpable too. In
time, that would turn off a powerful magnet.

Could the bill be improved, by liberal or conservative lights?  Obviously, and
that's exactly the point. To have gotten this far, any immigration bill would
have to be a compromise - and this is an honorable one. Yet at five minutes till
midnight, purists still insist on making the best the enemy of the good.
Simpson-Mazzoli deserves to be called a reform bill. The next immigration bill,
if there is one at all, could warrant a much uglier adjective.

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); NIGERIA (79%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES  UNITED STATES (95%); NIGERIA (79%);

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; ILLEGAL ALIENS; LAW AND LEGISLATION
IMMIGRATION (94%); CONSERVATISM (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); LEGISLATION (90%);
LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (89%);

 REFUGEES (78%); IMMIGRATION LAW (78%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (73%);
POLITICAL DEBATES (72%); APPROVALS (71%); AMNESTY (69%); BORDER CONTROL (68%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              16 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              December 14, 1982, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

AROUND THE WORLD;
Australia Promises To Curb Immigration

BYLINE: Reuters

SECTION: Section A; Page 7, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 119 words

DATELINE: CANBERRA, Australia, Dec. 13


Australia will tighten immigration rules after demands for curbs by unions and
employers because of rising unemployment, the Government said today.

A spokesman for Immigration Minister John Hodges said new guidelines would be
enforced to prevent Australians from losing jobs to new immigrants.

He said an immigration department check had shown widespread abuse of a plan
allowing employers to bring in immigrants if suitably skilled workers were not
available in Australia.

Figures made public last week showed unemployment had risen to 8.6 percent from
8.2 percent, and officials have said they expect it to rise to about 10 percent
early next year.

COUNTRY: AUSTRALIA (96%);

STATE: AUSTRALIAN CAPITAL TERRITORY (93%);

CITY: CANBERRA, AUSTRALIA (89%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;AUSTRALIA  AUSTRALIA (96%);   AUSTRALIAN CAPITAL TERRITORY (93%);
   CANBERRA, AUSTRALIA (89%);

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION  IMMIGRATION (93%);
IMMIGRATION LAW (92%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); LEGISLATION

 (87%); LAYOFFS (86%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              17 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 12, 1982, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

SCHOLAR FACING OUSTER BY U.S. GETS HOPE

BYLINE: By JOHN HERBERS, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 3, Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 515 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 11


The President of Colombia, Belisario Betancur, has asked President Reagan to
halt deportation proceedings against a Latin American scholar at the University
of Maryland, the White House said today.

In addition, people close to the scholar, Angel Rama, said that, after Mr.
Betancur's request, immigration officials indicated for the first time a
willingness to tell Mr. Rama of the charges against him.

The deputy White House press secretary, Larry Speakes, said Mr.  Betancur had
''raised the name'' of Mr. Rama during Mr. Reagan's recent trip to Central
America and South America.

Mr. Rama's case has been widely publicized in Latin America.  He has been in the
United States under temporary visas but has been denied permanent residence
under the McCarran Act, which bans Communists and subversives. Mr. Rama contends
he is neither.

Mr. Rama, 56 years old, received tenure as a professor of Spanish literature at
the University of Maryland last year, but his position has been jeopardized by
the Government's action.

''I am a socialist who writes about socialist beliefs,'' he said.

'A Crazy Story'

Mr. Rama, a native of Uruguay, said last month that the Government had refused
to grant him permanent residence in the United States under subsection 212 (a)
(28) of the McCarran-Walter Act of 1952 but refused to inform him what evidence
it had gathered against him.

''This is a crazy story,'' he said. ''I call it my Catch-28. It's absurd. It's
impossible to move on this case.'' (United Press International reported that Mr.
Rama had said of President Betancur's action: ''The President of Colombia knows
my wife and me. He is a cultivated man who knows the writers of Latin America.
He mentioned my name and the name of my wife. He was worried about our situation
in the United States and asked President Reagan to review my case.'')

John Toll, president of the University of Maryland, said that although he had no
direct knowledge of Mr. Betancur's intervention in the matter, he was encouraged
by indications that the Immigration and Naturalization Service may soon grant
Mr. Rama his request for information on the charges against him.

Mr. Rama, Mr. Toll and a lawyer for the state of Maryland, who is representing
the university in the case, met this week with Richard Spurlock, district
director of the immigration service, to renew the request for information needed
to make a case for lifting the charge.

''I was very encouraged,'' said Mr. Toll, whose campus is in the Washington
suburb of College Park. ''The university is very desirous that he get all the
information he can so far as can be done without compromising sources.''

He described Mr. Rama as an excellent scholar and said the university was
''eager for him to stay.'' Mr. Rama could not be reached for comment today, but
colleagues said Mr. Betancur called him a few days ago and told him he had
raised his case with President Reagan when the two had lunch in Bogota on Dec.
3.

INDUSTRY: SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (53%);

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); COLOMBIA (94%); LATIN AMERICA (91%); URUGUAY
(79%); CENTRAL AMERICA (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%);

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (95%);

COMPANY: UNITED PRESS INTERNATIONAL INC (53%);   UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND  (93%);
UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (93%);

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND  (93%); UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (93%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;COLOMBIA; UNITED STATES  UNITED STATES (97%); COLOMBIA (94%); LATIN
AMERICA (91%); URUGUAY (79%); CENTRAL AMERICA (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%);
MARYLAND, USA (95%);

SUBJECT: DEPORTATION; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION  DEPORTATION (91%); US
PRESIDENTS (90%); IMMIGRATION (89%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); ACADEMIC
TENURE (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT
(78%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (78%); IMMIGRATION LAW (78%); LITERATURE (73%);

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (94%); ROBERT I TOLL (52%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              18 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 12, 1982, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

A U.S. COURT RULING MAY HELP HAITIANS

BYLINE: By JOSEPH P. FRIED

SECTION: Section 1; Part 2; Page 63, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 997 words


Lawyers for some of the Haitian ''boat people'' fighting to remain in the United
States say that a recent decision by a Federal judge in Brooklyn could aid the
efforts of hundreds of the refugees scattered across the country.

The ruling, by Judge Eugene H. Nickerson of Federal District Court, involved
just one of the Haitians. It dealt with narrow legal issues related to the kind
of hearing she was entitled to from the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

But if the decision stands, the lawyers said last week, it could help hundreds
of the Haitians receive a category of hearing that would afford them greater
rights than the category the service has been providing them with, and give
thema much better chance of resisting the Government's efforts to send them back
to Haiti.

''It's a very technical decision, but it will have a significant impact,'' said
Arthur Helton of the Lawyers Committee for International Human Rights. The group
is coordinating the legal representation of many of the Haitian boat people.

U.S. Disagrees on Impact

Paul Schmidt, deputy general counsel of the Immigration and Naturalization
Service, agreed that if Judge Nickerson's ruling was not reversed, ''it will
have an impact.'' But he maintained that the effect would lie ''probably more in
delaying the process'' of ousting the affected Haitians from the United States
than in influencing the outcome of their cases.

He said that ''people without documentation to enter'' this country would
ultimately have to leave no matter which type of hearing they have.

Mr. Schmidt said it was ''pretty likely'' that his agency would recommend an
appeal of the ruling. But he said the final decision would be made by the
Solicitor General, who, like the Immigration Service, is part of the Justice
Department.

Judge Nickerson ruled on Nov. 24 in the case of Imane Phelisna, one of the
approximately 1,800 Haitians who fled their country last year, many of them in
small boats, and were caught trying to enter this country illegally. They were
placed in detention centers around the country under a 1981 Reagan
Administration policy designed to stem the illicit seaborne immigration from
Haiti.

The 1,800 have since been paroled from detention and are now involved in legal
proceedings that will determine whether they may remain in the United States.
They contend they qualify to remain as political refugees seeking political
asylum. The Government says they are economic refugees and thus not eligible for
admission.

Arrested in Miami

Miss Phelisna's application for asylum has already been denied by an immigration
judge, whose ruling has been upheld by the Board of Immigration Appeals. The
woman, who is in her 20's and temporarily living in Brooklyn, was arrested
shortly after she and a boatload of some 200 other Haitians disembarked on a
beach near Miami in July 1981.

She spent more than a year in the Immigration Service's Brooklyn detention
center. She and nearly 50 of the other Haitians being held there were recently
paroled.

In further appealing her case in Federal court in Brooklyn, her attorney, S.
Bernard Schwarz, argued that instead of having given her an exclusion hearing -
the type of hearing being given to all the Haitian aliens caught in the Reagan
Administration's crackdown - the Immigration Service should have given her a
deportation hearing.

Exclusion hearings are given to aliens who are deemed not to have ''made an
entry'' into the United States, even if they have physically arrived on American
soil, as in the case of an illegal alien intercepted by immigration authorities
at an airport, explained Duke Austin, a spokesman for the Immigration Service.

Deportation hearings are given to those who have made an entry, said Mr. Austin.


'Entry' a Murky Issue

''The question of when an alien is deemed to have 'entered' the United States is
a very complicated, technical and murky issue,'' Mr. Helton said. But he added
that the distinction can be significant to an alien fighting ouster from this
country.

Among other things, he said, in a deportation hearing the burden of proof on key
matters is on the Government, whereas in an exclusion hearing it is on the
alien. A deportation proceeding also has ''addition provisions for judicial
review,'' he said.

In his ruling, Judge Nickerson rejected the Government's argument that Miss
Phelisna's arrival on United States soil did not fit the legal concept of an
''entry,'' entitling her to the more advantageous deportation hearing. He
directed the Immigration Service to reconsider its position on the issue.

Mr. Schwarz said the reconsideration ordered by the judge would result in ''the
onset of a deportation hearing'' for his client.

Favorable Hearings Expected

Mr. Helton said the ruling could be cited as ''persuasive authority'' by lawyers
seeking the more favorable deportation hearings for the ''hundreds'' of Haitian
boat people elsewhere in the United States who, like Miss Phelisna, were caught
after they ''made it'' to United States soil. Those taken into custody at sea
are probably not affected by the ruling, he said.

Mr. Austin, the Immigration Service spokesman, said the ''large preponderance''
of the Haitians ''were apprehended after having hit the beach.''

Mr. Helton said that the 1,800 Haitians paroled from detention, virtually all of
whom had been caught while heading for or after having landed in Florida, are
now scattered across the country, with the largest concentrations in Florida and
New York State.

They are living with or supported by families who have agreed to sponsor them
while their efforts to remain in the United States continue.

COUNTRY: HAITI (97%); UNITED STATES (95%);

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%);

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%);

COMPANY: HUMAN RIGHTS FIRST  (56%); HUMAN RIGHTS FIRST (56%);

ORGANIZATION: HUMAN RIGHTS FIRST  (56%); HUMAN RIGHTS FIRST (56%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; HAITI; NEW YORK CITY  HAITI (97%); UNITED STATES
(95%);   NEW YORK, USA (95%);   NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%);

SUBJECT: COURTS; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; REFUGEES AND EXPATRIATES; ILLEGAL
ALIENS; DECISIONS AND VERDICTS  LAWYERS (92%); JUDGES (92%); IMMIGRATION (91%);
REFUGEES (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); US
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (89%); POLITICAL ASYLUM (89%); JUSTICE
DEPARTMENTS (79%); IMMIGRANT DETENTION CENTERS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%);
VERDICTS (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS (77%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (77%); CORPORATE
COUNSEL (74%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (73%); PAROLE (72%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS
(71%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (67%); ARRESTS (60%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              19 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 12, 1982, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

U.S. DENIES ENTRANCE TO RUMANIAN GIRL

SECTION: Section 1; Part 3; Page 92, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 761 words


The Federal Government has refused entry to a Rumanian girl whose family is
seeking political asylum in the United States, prompting expressions of concern
from Rumanian human rights activists in this country and from the office of the
United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees.

In the past, Rumania has been criticized in the West for restricting emigration.
But early this year the Rumanian authorities granted the girl, 16-year-old
Ildiko Zudor, permission to leave, and since then her case has been cited as a
rare instance of American immigration policy keeping someone from leaving
Eastern Europe.

Renewed efforts to reverse the ruling come at a time when, according to State
Department officials, several events have contributed to a confused situation
for Rumanian citizens seeking to immigrate to the United States.

According to State Department officials, administrative delays in the American
immigration process, combined with an unexpected surge of departure approvals by
Bucharest, left hundreds of Rumanians with exit visas unable to depart for a
two-month period beginning in mid-September.

Pursuing Quiet Diplomacy

The issue became more clouded a month ago when Rumania announced that citizens
seeking to emigrate would be required to repay the Rumanian Government for their
education. After sharp initial criticism, including a warning that the action
jeopardized Rumania's most-favored-nation trading status, the State Department
said it was pursuing quiet diplomacy in an effort to relax the new strictures.

Duke Austin, a spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service, said
the agency refused two months ago to grant Ildiko Zudor permission to join her
parents in Philadelphia because it had previously denied her parents' claim to
political asylum.

The girl's parents, Alexandru Zudor, 44, and his wife, Edith, 38, left Rumania
to enroll their brain-damaged 12-year-old son, Sandor, in a special medical
program at the Institutes for the Achievement of Human Potential in
Philadelphia.

The Zudors, who are of Hungarian ancestry, applied for asylum in September 1981,
citing political and religious persecution at home against Rumania's Hungarian
ethnic minority. The immigration service rejected the claim last April, noting
that the Rumanian authorities had allowed Mr. and Mrs. Zudor to make several
round trips to the United States in 1980 and 1981.

Ruling to Be Contested

The Zudors, who are now facing deportation, say they plan to contest the ruling.
Their attorney, H. Ronald Klasko, said last week that that process could take
many months.

''All we are saying is to let the child suffer the same fate as the family,''
Mr. Klasko said. ''To grant them asylum is shallow relief if they never get to
see their daughter again.''

''Family reunification is the basis of immigration policy, but that's not the
issue here,'' Mr. Austin replied. ''You do not permit dependents of people in
deportation proceedings to enter the country. In our view, the parents have
elected to be separated. If they had won the asylum claim there would be no
problem.''

Susan Reid, an assistant legal adviser in the office of the United Nations High
Commissioner for Refugees, urged the immigration service last week to reverse
the denial of Ildiko Zudor's visa application.

Likely to Face Persecution

In a letter Dec. 2 to John L. Rebsamen, director of the Refugee and Parole
Staff, she cited ''compelling humanitarian reasons'' and the ''likelihood'' that
the Zudors would face persecution if they returned to Rumania.

Lazlo Hamosh of the New York-based Committee for Human Rights in Rumania said
that persecution of ethnic minorities in Rumania included arrests, job
discrimination and the destruction of churches and schools.

Three Congressmen have also spoken to Government officials in behalf of the
Zudors, Mr. Klasko said. He identified them as Representatives Lawrence Coughlin
and Richard T. Schulze, both Pennsylvania Republicans, and Tom Lantos, a
California Democrat.

Speaking through a translator, Mrs. Zudor said the situation was ''desperate''
because her daughter had indicated, in letters and weekly phone calls, that the
Rumanian authorities had threatened to revoke her passport at the end of this
month and make her a ''ward of the state.''

COUNTRY: ROMANIA (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); HUNGARY (92%); EUROPE (79%);
EASTERN EUROPE (57%);

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%);

CITY: BUCHAREST, ROMANIA (52%);

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (UN)  UNITED NATIONS HIGH COMMISSIONER FOR REFUGEES
(90%); UNITED NATIONS  (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%);

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN)  UNITED NATIONS HIGH COMMISSIONER FOR REFUGEES

 (90%); UNITED NATIONS  (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; RUMANIA  ROMANIA (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); HUNGARY

 (92%); EUROPE (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (57%);   PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%);
BUCHAREST, ROMANIA (52%);

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; REFUGEES AND EXPATRIATES  IMMIGRATION
(93%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); POLITICAL ASYLUM (91%); REFUGEES (91%);
INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); RELIEF
ORGANIZATIONS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES
(90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); IMMIGRATION LAW (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%);
PASSPORTS & VISAS (77%); DEPORTATION (77%); ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE (73%);
DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (73%); MOST FAVORED NATION STATUS (72%); ETHNIC GROUPS
(70%); LAWYERS (69%); RELIGION (50%); ETHNICITY (50%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              20 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              December 9, 1982, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

IMMIGRATION BILL IS CLEARED FOR HOUSE DEBATE

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 23, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 698 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 8


A comprehensive immigration bill, broadly similar to one passed by the Senate,
was cleared today for debate on the floor of the House of Representatives as
Congress moved toward a scheduled adjournment at the end of next week.

The House Rules Committee approved a resolution permitting five hours of general
debate and setting no limit on the number of amendments that could be offered.
But the panel said that all amendments must be printed in the Congressional
Record by Thursday.

Thomas P. O'Neill Jr., the Speaker of the House, said he planned to call up the
measure before the final adjournment of the House, tentatively scheduled for
Dec. 17. However, Mr. O'Neill, a Massachusetts Democrat, said that ''all of a
sudden there has surfaced an awful lot of organized opposition'' to the bill,
especially among members of racial and ethnic minority groups.

The main purpose of the bill, which is strongly supported by the Reagan
Administration, is to control illegal immigration. It would establish a system
of fines and prison terms for employers who hire illegal aliens. The penalties
are supposed to eliminate the ''magnet'' that draws illegal aliens to this
country. The bill would also offer legal status to certain illegal aliens who
entered the United States before 1980. In addition, it would revise the
administrative and judicial process for handling asylum and deportation cases.

Jobs for Americans

Concern over unemployment dominated two days of testimony before the Rules
Committee. Supporters of the bill said the measure would remove illegal aliens
from the labor force, opening jobs for Americans. Opponents said that some
provisions, such as the liberalized terms for admission of farm workers from
Mexico, would intensify competition for jobs.

Representative Peter W. Rodino Jr., Democrat of New Jersey, the chairman of the
Judiciary Committee, said the bill would enhance job opportunities and job
security for American workers. Americans, he said, ''will no longer have to
compete for jobs with a docile and exploitable undocumented work force.''

Only two of the 16 lawmakers on the Rules Committee voted against sending the
bill to the floor. Representative Martin Frost, Democrat of Texas, said, ''I
can't find anyone in the state of Texas who is for this bill.'' Representative
Shirley Chisholm, Democrat of Brooklyn, complained of a ''rush to judgment'' on
the bill, and she predicted that the system of employer sanctions would lead to
discrimination against people who ''look Hispanic.''

Representative Edward R. Roybal, Democrat of California, said that members of
the Congressional Hispanic Caucus were prepared to offer 75 amendments and to
demand a roll-call vote on each one. ''This is definitely not a jobs bill,'' he
said, adding that Americans would not take the low-paying jobs vacated by
illegal aliens.

Representative Jim Wright, Democrat of Texas, the House majority leader, said
the bill needed significant changes. ''With the limited time available to us,''
he said, ''I'm not sure we can work out the types of changes that would make it
broadly acceptable.'' However, he said debate on the bill ''may serve a useful
purpose, even if it's not enacted, by focusing attention on the complexity of
the problem so next year we could perfect a more generally acceptable
approach.''

Mr. Wright said he had been meeting with Representative Romano L.  Mazzoli,
Democrat of Kentucky, the chief sponsor of the House bill, to see if it was
possible to set stricter conditions for granting amnesty to illegal aliens.

The Congressional Black Caucus has taken the position that the bill should not
be brought to the floor this year. In a letter to Mr.  O'Neill, 14 black members
of the House warned that ''Congress will be racked with discord if this measure
is brought to the floor for a vote.''

Much of the floor debate is expected to focus on proposed changes in the program
for admission of temporary foreign workers.

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%);

STATE: TEXAS, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%);

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%);

COMPANY: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES INC (92%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES  UNITED STATES (98%);   TEXAS, USA (93%);
MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%);   NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%);

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION  IMMIGRATION (92%);
LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); LABOR FORCE (89%);
LEGISLATION (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATORS (78%); ETHNIC GROUPS
(78%); CAUCUSES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); FOREIGN LABOR (78%); APPROVALS
(78%); POLITICS (78%); DEPORTATION (78%); TESTIMONY (73%); RACE & RACISM (73%);
DISCRIMINATION (68%); ETHNICITY (68%); FARM LABOR (67%); CRIMINAL FINES (52%);

PERSON: JAMES F WRIGHT  (50%); JAMES F WRIGHT (50%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              21 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              December 9, 1982, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

IMMIGRATION: DON'T IMPEDE NEEDED SPECIALISTS

SECTION: Section A; Page 26, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 480 words


To the Editor:

In a number of recent editorials, you have urged Congress to pass the
Simpson-Mazzoli Immigration Reform Bill. In general, I support the concepts of
this bill. It is high time that we had a comprehensive immigration law, and it
is important to make sure that American workers are not put out of work by
foreign labor. In particular, I support the sanctions contained in the
bill.§till, as originally written, a number of provisions of the bill would make
it extremely difficult for American universities and industry to hire foreign
faculty and workers in areas where there is a serious shortage of qualified
American personnel.

The very serious shortage in computer science and engineering has been well
documented, in The Times and elsewhere. Dr. William Perry, former Under
Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering, has stated that ''the lack of
electronic and computer science engineers may be the single most important fact
limiting the growth and continued vitality of the electronics industry.''

One provision in the immigration bill would require that all foreign students
return home for at least two years following graduation. Another would make it
very difficult for American employers to hire skilled foreign nationals.
Individuals with Ph.D.- level skills in short supply, whether local, regional or
national, should be allowed to work here.

Last July, the heads of computer science and computer engineering departments,
meeting at Snowbird, Utah, unanimously adopted a resolution which recommended
that the proposed legislation be amended to retain or ease provisions of current
immigration law in such critical fields as computer science and computer
engineering.

Different versions of the original bill have passed the Senate as well as the
House Judiciary Committee. It is not yet clear, therefore, what bill might
finally arrive before a conference committee.

One version, which passed the House committee, sets a seven-year limit on
waivers for doctoral students in critical areas. The danger of such a provision
is that it typically takes some five years to get a doctorate in an experimental
subject, so we could expect to see foreign applications to our engineering
schools start to dry up within a couple of years.

With the current sad state of American education in engineering and science, we
can use all the help we can get. This help should be obtained from abroad if
necessary.  (Prof.) J. F. TRAUB New York, Dec. 1, 1982

The writer is chairman of the Computer Science Department at Columbia
University.

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%);

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); UTAH, USA (79%);

COMPANY: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY PRESS (51%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES  UNITED STATES (96%);   NEW YORK, USA (79%); UTAH,
USA (79%);

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION; LABOR; HIRING AND
PROMOTION; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES  IMMIGRATION (92%);
ENGINEERING (91%); IMMIGRATION LAW (91%); COMPUTER ENGINEERING (90%); FOREIGN
LABOR (90%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); RECRUITMENT &
HIRING (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE
BODIES (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); LABOR SHORTAGES (77%); FOREIGN
STUDENTS (76%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (75%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS
(75%); ELECTRONICS (75%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (75%); COLLEGE
STUDENTS (75%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%);
DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (68%);

PERSON: WILLIAM PERRY (56%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              22 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 5, 1982, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

PEKING IS TROUBLED BY RISE IN DEFECTIONS TO WEST

BYLINE: By RICHARD BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 22, Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 958 words


China's policy of sending students, scholars and others to the United States for
extended visits has created tensions between the two Governments because of the
large number of defections, according to American officials.

Peking officials are also reported to be troubled by what appears to them to be
the beginning of dissident activities in the United States by some Chinese
students.

As of the end of October, there were 1,030 pending applications for political
asylum filed by Chinese in this country, a figure equal to roughly 10 percent of
the estimated 10,000 to 11,000 Chinese who are on extended visits here,
according to figures provided by the Immigration and Naturalization Service.
Eight applicants for political asylum have been approved so far this year and 87
rejected.

The Chinese Embassy in Washington has made protests ''at the highest level''
over what it views as American receptivity to Chinese requests for asylum,
according to the American officials.  China has charged that ''unscrupulous
individuals'' and American intelligence agencies have lured some of its citizens
into requesting asylum, these officials say.

Motivated by Life-Style Concerns

Similarly, Chinese officials have warned Americans visiting China that the
defections of Chinese to the United States threaten the cultural exchange
program between the two countries. One such visitor quoted a ranking Chinese
leader as saying recently that such ''unpleasant directions'' as defections have
made some parts of the Chinese bureaucracy ''hesitant'' to continue with
cultural exchanges.

The problem is ''pretty serious,'' said an American official. ''It injects
itself into the overall atmosphere.'' ''We try to explain to them,'' he went on,
''that there are risks in an exchange program. Some people fall out, but most do
go back home and we think they are enriched by their experience here.''

China embarked on a policy about three years ago of sending students and
scholars to the United States to learn skills that would be useful in the
country's modernization program.

A State Department specialist, Richard Howarth, said that some of the Chinese
seeking asylum were motivated more by life-style concerns than any real worry
about political persecution back in China.

''The few cases that I've seen were pretty weak,'' Mr. Howarth said in a
telephone interview. ''They weren't involved in political life at all. They just
wanted to stay here with their children or grandchildren.''

Screening Procedures

Still, China presumably carefully screens those students, performers and
athletes that come to this country and the Peking Government has evidently been
shocked that defectors and dissidents have emerged from these selected groups.

A notable case arose recently when a Chinese physician studying on a Chinese
Government scholarship in Canada announced that he would defect to the West to
publish a new dissident magazine, ''China Spring.'' The physician, Dr. Wang
Bingzhang, said he would not return to China but instead would devote himself
full time to a new organization, based in North America, that would work for
democratic change in his homeland.

Mr. Wang's defection caused a stir among many Chinese students and scholars
here. He said he had received hundreds of letters of support, many from Chinese
students. His magazine has received private donations amounting to tens of
thousands of dollars, and companies owned by overseas Chinese have pledged even
larger donations, he said in an interview.

Mr. Wang's defection followed that of several others that Government officials
say were protested by China. Among those who defected were a tennis player, Hu
Na, in California in late July, and a ballet dancer, Lin Jianwei, who announced
during a tour here in June that he did not want to go back. There have been
several other defections, including those of another ballet dancer, a cellist
studying at the University of Minnesota and a diplomat.

To be granted political asylum, a person must show a reasonable fear that he
will be persecuted in his home country because of his beliefs.

Reasons for Staying Are Unclear

It is impossible to determine what percentage of Chinese in the United States
request asylum out of sympathy with dissident ideas and how many do so because
they want to stay for economic or personal reasons.

Mr. Wang said that while he was still in China he sympathized with dissidents
active in 1978 and 1979, many of whom have since been jailed. He said that when
he left China for his studies in Canada he had already decided that he would try
to form a dissident group in North America. Other Chinese students contend that
his ideas have struck a sympathetic cord with many intellectuals in this
country.

''I'm excited by what Dr. Wang did, but I'm not surprised,'' said Liang Heng, a
Chinese student at Columbia University. ''In China and among lots of Chinese
students here I've met lots who have the same ideas as Dr. Wang.''

Some American experts on China believe that as a result of defections, the
Chinese Government has already tightened its selection procedures for students
who want to study abroad. Some Chinese students already at schools in this
country reportedly decided against returning to China during the last summer
vacation out of fear that once back home they would not be allowed to leave
again.

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (99%); CANADA (79%);

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (88%);

COMPANY: IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE  (56%); IMMIGRATION &
NATURALIZATION SERVICE (56%);

ORGANIZATION: IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE  (56%); IMMIGRATION &
NATURALIZATION SERVICE (56%);

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (99%); CANADA (79%);   BEIJING, CHINA
(88%);

SUBJECT: CHINA; UNITED STATE INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CULTURAL RELATIONS;
EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION  POLITICAL ASYLUM (91%);
STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); IMMIGRATION (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%);

 CHILDREN (85%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); INTERVIEWS
(77%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (74%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (73%); STATE
DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (73%); APPROVALS (72%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES
(69%); GRANDCHILDREN (60%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              23 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 3, 1982, Friday, Late City Final Edition

Why Break the Immigration Clock?

SECTION: Section A; Page 30, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 391 words


There's a bargain built into the immigration reform bill inching through the
House. On the one hand, the bill would make it much harder for illegal workers
to enter the country. On the other, it would provide limited amnesty for those
already here, living with a fear of discovery that subjects them to
exploitation. It's a humane bargain - and also a practical one. The
Simpson-Mazzoli reform bill, as delicately balanced as a clock, could never have
gotten so far without it.

But now, within sight of triumph, the bargain and thus the bill are suddenly in
jeopardy. Speaker O'Neill, to his credit, has promised to bring up the bill
during this lame-duck session. Meanwhile, some House members, by wanting things
both ways, threaten to break the clock. Though happy to have tougher
enforcement, they want to strip amnesty out of the bill. The effort dishonors
the implicit immigration bargain and misunderstands what amnesty would
accomplish.

Hundreds of thousands of illegal workers would probably seek amnesty. To some
nervous members, amnesty sounds like blanket legalization for a flood of
''crooks, Commies and welfare cheats,'' as one House staff member says
ironically. But the reform bill would provide no blanket legalization; it
requires case-by-case treatment.  Aliens have to have been here for three years
to win temporary status, six for permanent status. Undesirables are excluded.
Eligibility for welfare is denied or delayed.

More important than exaggerated fears are the benefits, which is why the Reagan
Administration vigorously supports the entire package. Amnesty for old aliens
would enable the Immigration Service to focus its threadbare enforcement efforts
on keeping out new ones. And it would eliminate a fearful, servile underclass.

How can it be good for a democratic society when employers or landlords or
merchants prey on illegal aliens' fear of deportation?  How can it be good for
illegal aliens to shrink from ever going to the police, or to be taxed unfairly?
Tolerating such an underclass is cruel to them and unhealthy for the rest of us.
The immigration reform bargain - tough enforcement coupled with sensible amnesty
- deserves to be honored.

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES  UNITED STATES (79%);

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION; ILLEGAL ALIENS
IMMIGRATION (92%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%);
AMNESTY (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); FOREIGN LABOR (89%); LEGISLATION (78%);
LEGISLATORS (78%); DEPORTATION (73%); WELFARE FRAUD (66%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              24 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              December 2, 1982, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

DRIVE TO REVAMP IMMIGRATION LAW IS GAINING

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 28, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 702 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 1


Members of Congress appear increasingly eager to pass a comprehensive
immigration bill this year, but there is growing support for efforts to delete a
proposed amnesty for illegal aliens.

Since Congress reconvened Monday, supporters of the bill have been telling
colleagues that it would help reduce unemployment by making it unlawful for
anyone to employ an illegal alien. Thus, they say, the bill would open hundreds
of thousands of jobs to United States citizens. Discussions of the bill on
Capitol Hill have increasingly emphasized its restrictionist features.

The Reagan Administration still supports legalization as a component of the
bill. But Justice Department officials said today, for the first time, that they
would be willing to consider deferring legalization until the Government's
enforcement capabilities had been strengthened.

House Democrats said the bill could come to the floor for debate as early as
next week. Eliminating the amnesty provisions would profoundly alter the nature
of the bill, which, its supporters say, represents a delicate balance between
tougher enforcement and humanitarian changes.

Proposals in Congress

The Senate and the House Judiciary Committee have approved comprehensive
immigration bills that would offer permanent resident status to several million
illegal aliens who entered this country before Jan. 1, 1977, and lived here
continuously since then. The precise number of people who would qualify is
unknown. The bills would offer provisional amnesty to illegal aliens who arrived
from Jan. 1, 1977, to Jan. 1, 1980. They could become permanent residents after
a three-year waiting period. Permanent residents, in turn, can become citizens
after five years.

David D. Hiller, a Justice Department official, said: ''We were an early
proponent of a realistic, properly limited legalization program. That is an
appropriate part of an overall bill. However, there is a great deal of sentiment
out there for deferring legalization until such time as we are convinced that
enforcement measures are in place and effective.''

If there was a strong push to delete the amnesty provisions, he said, ''the
enforcement parts of the bill should go ahead and the issue of legalization
could be revisited later, when Congress felt more comfortable with it.''

Deletion of the amnesty would cause great concern to Hispanic Americans, who see
aggressive enforcement as a possible threat to their civil rights. But with more
than 11.5 million Americans out of work, even some liberals in Congress have
expressed reservations about granting amnesty.

Representative F. James Sensenbrenner Jr., Republican of Wisconsin, intends to
offer an amendment to delete the amnesty provisions, which he described as ''the
most objectionable features'' of the bill. ''It seems ludicrous to be granting
amnesty to millions of illegal aliens at a time when our country is suffering
from such high unemployment,'' he said.

'Reward' for Breaking Law

In a statement filed with the Judiciary Committee report, Mr.  Sensenbrenner
said that amnesty would set ''a bad precedent'' and encourage further illegal
immigration. In addition, he said, it was ''unfair to the hundreds of thousands
of immigrant applicants, some of whom have been waiting as long as 10 years to
come to this country legally.'' The amnesty, he said, would be a ''reward'' for
illegal conduct.

Representative William J. Hughes, Democrat of New Jersey, said that Congress
should not approve a ''mass amnesty program'' until it gave the Immigration and
Naturalization Service more resources to enforce the law.

In September the House Judiciary Committee rejected, 16 to 12, a bid to delete
the amnesty section of the bill.  Representative Romano L. Mazzoli, Democrat of
Kentucky, and Senator Alan K. Simpson, Republican of Wyoming, the sponsor of the
Senate bill, have repeatedly said that the legislation was ''not nativist, not
racist and not mean.''

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES  UNITED STATES (96%);

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; ILLEGAL ALIENS; CITIZENSHIP; LAW AND
LEGISLATION  ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (93%); IMMIGRATION (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES
(91%); LEGISLATORS (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); AMNESTY (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW
(90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); LIBERALISM (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%);
POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CITIZENSHIP LAW (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); CIVIL
RIGHTS (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (75%); HISPANIC
AMERICANS (73%); APPROVALS (73%); CITIZENSHIP (67%);

PERSON: F JAMES SENSENBRENNER JR  (51%); F JAMES SENSENBRENNER JR (51%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              25 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 28, 1982, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

NEW JERSEY JOURNAL

BYLINE: By Albert J Parisi

SECTION: Section 11; New Jersey; Page 3, Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1567 words


A raid by Federal agents on a Passaic clothing factory earlier this month may
force the deportation of 40 illegal Polish aliens, all of them women who worked
as sewing-machine operators. The raid, which was conducted by 50 agents of the
Internal Revenue and Immigration and Naturalization Services, centered on
Fashion Associates Inc.

The company's financial records were also seized under warrants issued by United
States Magistrate G. Donald Haneke in Newark for what officials are calling
probable violations of Federal income tax, labor and immigration laws.

Of the 52 persons arrested, all but one were released within hours of being
interviewed at the Immigration Service office in Newark.  ''One woman, a
Filipino national, is still being held,'' said Diane Armenakis, an assistant
United States Attorney. The 40 women, she said, are considered illegal aliens
and face deportation proceedings, but no criminal charges. However, because of
political unrest in Poland, officials stress that deportation is unlikely.

''From what I understand, for these women to remain in the country legally, they
must be classified as 'political exiles' by the State Department in
Washington,'' Mrs. Armenakis said. ''That's where the issue stands right now.''

The women are believed to live in the Wallington and Passaic areas, which have
large Polish-American communities.  Mass arrests of illegal aliens in New Jersey
are not unusual. In April, several hundred Colombian and Salvadoran nationals
were seized in one week throughout the state and eventually deported.

A special program originating from Overlook Hospital in Summit is getting across
the message that keeping calm and avoiding panic are just as important in saving
lives as cardiopulmonary resuscitation, or CPR, as it is commonly known.

''Emergency: The First Five Minutes!'' is a two-hour course taught by certified
members of the hospital's CPR Unit on how to cope and what to do in a medical
emergency. The program has just been completed by 150 employees of
Bloomingdale's at the Short Hills Mall, and additional classes are expected to
resume after the holidays.

''There's such a helpless feeling in people who witness someone who collapses,''
said Connie Anderson, the hospital's CPR coordinator, adding that training
focuses on what to do in the interim. ''For the most part, when there's an
accident or someone is stricken, there isn't a doctor in the house.''

Mrs. Anderson said that immediate help could be offered by trained co-workers or
employees. Action in those few minutes between the time someone is hurt and an
emergency medical unit arrives can often save lives.

''Mainly, we're teaching people to keep their heads and call for immediate
assistance,'' Mrs. Anderson said. ''A medical unit that's properly informed on
the situation by a caller who calmly describes the emergency has a better chance
to do its job.''

The program, which took a year to plan and organize, is serving businesses and
industry in parts of Union, Morris, Essex and Somerset Counties. Hospital
officials contend that demand for the training will increase once the course is
better known.

''The employees in Bloomingdale's were enthusiastic over the course and quick to
pick up on it,'' Mrs. Anderson said.  The course costs $40 per instructor for
each 10 students.

Dr. William Pecoraro of Demarest has won a legal battle, and its effect is not
so much on his wallet as on his eardrums. For the last 12 years, Dr. Pecoraro, a
dentist, has objected to a high-pitch fire siren that is bolted to a utility
pole just outside his home and office on Hardenburgh Avenue.

His pleas to local officials for its removal, Dr. Pecoraro contends, have fallen
on deaf ears. But the State Superior Court has ruled that the siren is a public
nuisance and has asked the Demarest Mayor and Council to seek a solution.

The siren, like its counterpart across town, is the only practical way to alert
the volunteer firefighters, emergency officials say.  They will not remove the
sirens, but have curtailed a testing schedule and lowered the sound level.

''The problem is that the siren goes off at all hours of the night - and not
just in emergencies,'' Dr. Pecoraro said, adding that residents in 180 towns
throughout the state have similar problems.  Local and state health officials
have documented that the siren, which blares for nearly three minutes, exceeds
Federal standards in terms of noise level.

''Sometimes, it goes off a few times in the middle of the night, and sometimes
in the day, when I'm working on a patient,'' Dr.  Pecoraro said. ''You learn to
make do.''

If town officials continue dragging their heels over the issue, Dr. Pecoraro
said, he and several neighbors will continue legal action.  ''This is more than
a little peace of mind for me,'' he said. ''I'm trying to protect my family and
our hearing.''

Of the nearly 10,000 vehicles pulled over and examined in October by roving
inspection teams of the state's Division of Motor Vehicles, more than half
failed because of one or more safety defects.

Clifford W. Snedeker, the division's director, said that the drivers of 31
percent of those vehicles were given tickets for extremely serious safety
violations. The tickets were written by local police officers aiding the
inspection teams.

Also, 165 cars were impounded because they were ''too unsafe for continued
highway operation,'' were unregistered or were being driven by motorists with
suspended licenses.

Since September, when the roadside spot inspections began, nearly 15,000 private
and commercial vehicles have been stopped. The inspections are limited to
off-peak hours so as not to cause motorists delays in their work schedules.

The average inspection is said to take about five minutes.

Psyching out the opponent is the name of the game these days for Dr. Selwyn
Mirkin, a Teaneck psychologist with a doctorate in human relations. He treats
athletes, mostly tennis players and the like, who have a problem in common: They
can't win.

Dr. Mirkin described his technique, which he calls ''See-Feel-Win,'' this way:
''I determine if the person is susceptible to being put in a trance state first.
If he is, I hypnotize him and let him regress to a time in a previous match when
he felt comfortable and played well.

''Then we run through a match that may be upcoming and which he's nervous about.
I have him imagine making excellent strokes and trouncing his opponent.
Actually, I'm desensitizing my client to think positive.''

The patient, he said, must meet two criteria if treatment is to be worthwhile:
He must have had successful experiences in the past and he must be susceptible
to hypnosis.

Dr. Mirkin said that he could, for example, bring an ex-Ping Pong player who had
not competed in 10 years up to 80 percent of his former capacity.

One of the psychologist's patients is 12-year-old Henry Mandeville of Montvale,
who is ranked 15th in his division by the Eastern Tennis Association. Henry has
been undergoing treatment for five weeks.

''It's unbelievable,'' his mother said. ''Henry played a 17-yearold top Bergen
County teen-ager -I mean he shaves already - and he made a good showing. Last
weekend, a kid who Henry had never beaten before just folded under my son.''

A 94 percent increase in burglaries in Morris County between 1975 and 1980
prompted County Prosecutor investigators there to come up with an educational
crime-prevention program and resource center financed by a $36,000 Federal
grant.

Since January 1981, more than 125 municipal police personnel and thousands of
citizens have cooperated to reduce residential and commercial burglaries, which
went from 3,315 in 1981 to 2,202 in the first eight months of this year, a
decrease of 33.6 percent.

The Society of Crime Prevention Practictioners - a national organization of
law-enforcement professionals - sent its president, Brooks Russell of Seattle,
to Morristown earlier this month to give the county the society's Outstanding
Unit award for ''contributions, accomplishments and achievements in this
exciting new field of public safety.''

John T. Dempsey, Morris County's crime-prevention coordinator, attributed much
of the success to citizens trained by the police in neighborhood seminars. He
noted that 60 percent of the burglaries occurred in the daytime, and that
residents' new awareness and new precautions had helped neighborhoods to make
themselves less vulnerable to intruders.

''Municipal Police Departments with manpower shortages were willing to risk
taking a man off patrol duty to institute crimeprevention programs, and now they
can see the benefits,'' Mr.  Dempsey said. ''Citizens in 38 municipalities have
become the eyes and ears of the police to direct them to places where crimes may
be about to occur.''

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); EL SALVADOR (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); POLAND
(58%);

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (97%);

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (90%);

COMPANY: DD ASSOCIATES INC (72%); AG ASSOCIATES INC (72%); AB ASSOCIATES INC
(72%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PASSAIC (NJ); UNITED STATES; NEW JERSEY; MORRIS COUNTY (NJ)  UNITED
STATES (97%); EL SALVADOR (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); POLAND (58%);   NEW
JERSEY, USA (97%);   NEWARK, NJ, USA (90%);

SUBJECT: ILLEGAL ALIENS; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; AUTOMOBILES; PSYCHOLOGY AND
PSYCHOLOGISTS; CRIME AND CRIMINALS  IMMIGRATION (91%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (91%);

 ARRESTS (90%); WOMEN WORKERS (90%); FACTORY WORKERS (90%); GARMENT WORKERS
(90%); DEPORTATION (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); US FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT (78%); IMMIGRATION LAW (78%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (78%); BURGLARY
(78%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); TAX AUTHORITIES (77%); ARREST WARRANTS (76%);
JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); APPAREL MFG (73%); INCOME TAX (72%); FIRST AID (68%);

 PSYCHOLOGY (66%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: photo of Jersey Devil tale tellers

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              26 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 26, 1982, Friday, Late City Final Edition

AN EMBARRASSING U.S. QUARREL WITH A LATIN AMERICAN SCHOLAR

SECTION: Section A; Page 26, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 235 words


To the Editor:

The story of Prof. Angel Rama's unequal fight for permanent residence in the
United States (news article Nov. 14) is a disquieting reminder of how
McCarran-Walter Act provisions are habitually stretched in order to exclude
Latin Americans and other foreigners whose political stance happens to be
somewhere to the left of the State Department's.

Even unstretched, these overly restrictive immigration clauses are an
embarrassment to our democratic reputation. They should be amended. Meantime,
the free-wheeling and disingenuous characterization of so many foreigners
seeking entry or permanent residence here as ''Communists'' is a tactic the
State Department should, in recognition that democracy thrives on honest debate
and free expression, abandon once and for all.

Your article rightly suggests the undemocratic absurdity of Mr.  Rama's having
to face charges based on ''classified'' evidence to which he and his lawyer have
no access, and the illogic of State Department objections to Mr. Rama's articles
in the 1960's on C.I.A.  intervention in Latin America, which were largely based
on reports that had appeared in The Times.

The ill-founded charges against Mr. Rama amount not only to a personal attack
but to an assault on academic freedom.
JOHN F. DEREDITA, New London, Conn., Nov. 15, 1982 The writer is associate
professor of Hispanic studies at Connecticut College.

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); LATIN AMERICA (91%);

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (91%);

CITY: NEW LONDON, CT, USA (50%);

COMPANY: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY  (52%);

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY  (52%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES  UNITED STATES (93%); LATIN AMERICA (91%);
CONNECTICUT, USA (91%);   NEW LONDON, CT, USA (50%);

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; DISCRIMINATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION
LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS
(90%); IMMIGRATION (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); ACADEMIC
FREEDOM (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); LAWYERS (69%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL
STUDIES (65%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              27 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              November 25, 1982, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

U.S. IS URGED TO LET STRANDED POLES STAY

BYLINE: By DAVID SHRIBMAN, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 3, Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 630 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 24


Polish-American groups have called on the Reagan Administration to grant another
extension to Polish citizens who arrived in the United States before the
imposition of martial law in Poland and face an expiration of their visas.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service said the more than 5,000 Poles who
are in the United States on student, business and visitor visas would face
deportation unless the voluntary date of departure was extended beyond Dec. 31.

''These people don't want to return to Poland,'' said Myra Lenard, executive
director of the Washington office of the Polish-American Congress. ''For many of
them the situation is bad. They have been away so long that things have changed,
and they don't know what will meet them when they return.''

The deadline has been extended twice before - the first time until March 31 -and
could be extended again. State Department officials said the Polish domestic
situation was ''under continuous review'' and they declined to speculate whether
the date would be extended or whether the department's recommendation would be
affected if Poland were to end martial law, which was imposed Dec. 13, 1981.

4,800 Applications for Asylum

Those Poles whose visas have not expired are not affected. Nor are the 4,800
other Poles whose applications for political asylum are being considered.

Many Poles whose visas have expired have received notices warning that they are
in danger of being deported.  ''We would like this settled as soon as
possible,'' said Aloysius Mazewski, president of the Polish National Alliance,
in a telephone interview from Chicago. ''Why should people live from day to day?
They should know their fate. The holidays are coming up and everybody wants to
make plans. You just cannot live with that threat hanging over your head.''

Mr. Mazewski said many Poles would be eager to return once the Polish situation
stabilized. He added, however, that he believed it was premature to ask them to
return now.

''The situation has not changed there,'' he said. ''It is just as bad, or worse.
A lot of these people would go back - would love to go back - if they thought
things had improved.''

First Anniversary Approaching

The approach of the first anniversary of the Dec. 13 imposition of martial law
has prompted speculation that changes may be in the offing. A State Department
official said that the nature of any such change would be examined carefully.

The official said that, if the Poles were to move from martial law to what they
call a state of emergency, ''nothing may really change.'' But if they go from
''martial law to nothing,'' the official added, ''then we'll have to look at
what that means.''

Senator Charles H. Percy, the Illinois Republican who heads the Senate Foreign
Relations Committee, has urged the Administration to extend the voluntary date
of departure even if the period of martial law ends.

''The lifting of martial law would not end the problems that the Poles would
face if they returned,'' he said in letters to Attorney General William French
Smith and Secretary of State George P. Shultz.

Duke Austin, a spokesman for the immigration service, said of those Poles whose
applications for political asylum were being considered, ''Even if they are
turned down, they would not be deported.''

Mr. Austin added that officials in the immigration service were unaware of any
Poles having been convicted of criminal acts in the United States and sent back
to Poland against their will.

''Even if these people are found deportable,'' he said, ''they will not be sent
back to Poland if they don't want to go.''

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); POLAND (94%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%);

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (54%);

COMPANY: IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE  (58%); IMMIGRATION &
NATURALIZATION SERVICE (58%);

ORGANIZATION: IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE  (58%); IMMIGRATION &
NATURALIZATION SERVICE (58%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;POLAND; UNITED STATES  UNITED STATES (99%); POLAND (94%); CENTRAL
EUROPE (90%);   CHICAGO, IL, USA (54%);

SUBJECT: REFUGEES AND EXPATRIATES; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION  IMMIGRATION
(90%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (90%); POLITICAL ASYLUM (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); DEPORTATION (77%); INTERVIEWS (75%); REFUGEES (72%);
EXECUTIVES (70%); ANNIVERSARIES (60%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              28 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              November 25, 1982, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

AROUND THE WORLD;
U.S. Envoy Not Worried About Immigration Bill

BYLINE: Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 5, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 209 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Nov. 24


The United States Ambassador to Mexico, John Gavin, said today that he did not
share the ''dire expectations'' of some Mexicans about the repercussions in
Mexico of adoption of a comprehensive immigration bill ending in Congress.

In letters to the sponsors of the bill, Senator Alan K. Simpson, Republican of
Wyoming, and Representative Romano L. Mazzoli, a Kentucky Democrat, Mr. Gavin
also noted that an embassy report quoted by The New York Times last Sunday
sought only to reflect the opinions of key Mexicans. ''I think it important, as
I know you do, that their voices be heard,'' he said.

But he argued that the report overlooked that the unclassified embassy report
had been prepared by two summer interns after many interviews with influential
Mexicans and instead ''would have the reader infer that it is based on a recent
'dispatch' from me.''

The 17-page report reflected the views of many Mexican officials, academic
figures and businessmen that adoption of the bill by Congress next month would
harm United States-Mexican relations and ''would foster political unrest with
potentially explosive consequences.''

COUNTRY: MEXICO (99%); UNITED STATES (94%);

STATE: KENTUCKY, USA (92%);

CITY: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (93%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; MEXICO  MEXICO (99%); UNITED STATES (94%);
KENTUCKY, USA (92%);   MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (93%);

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION; FOREIGN SERVICE;
UNITED STATE INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS  IMMIGRATION (93%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES
(92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY
(78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LEGISLATION (77%);

PERSON: JOHN ANTHONY GOLENOR GAVIN  (93%); ALAN K SIMPSON  (58%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              29 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              November 25, 1982, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

Making Jobs - and Saving Them

SECTION: Section A; Page 22, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 478 words


''Our first priority,'' says House Speaker O'Neill, ''must be to put the
millions of unemployed back to work.'' The Speaker has his social priorities
straight; he's willing to act urgently to make jobs. But is he equally willing
to act urgently to save them? Doing that is within his grasp, and that of the
lame-duck Congress starting next week - by passing the nearly finished
legislation to reform the immigration laws.

One need not be an economic scholar to see the connection between unemployment
and illegal immigration. Undocumented aliens pour across the borders in search
of jobs. True, many of those jobs are so menial that Americans won't take them,
or might be automated if there were no illegals willing to do them for low pay.
Nevertheless, the Labor Department estimates that for every five jobs taken by
illegal immigrants, one American is deprived of a job.

How many jobs are lost that way? The facts are spongy. No one knows how many
illegals come in each year, or how many leave. But the United States Ambassador
to Mexico recently reported that if the immigration laws were strengthened,
''Probably between one and two million Mexicans would be forced to return to
Mexico.'' And Mexico supplies only half the illegal entrants.

It seems reasonable to guess that some 500,000 illegal immigrants a year are
added to the work force, displacing at least 100,000 American workers. That
leads to an obvious question. The Speaker - and the President - want quick
action on a $33 billion infrastructure program that would make 320,000 jobs. Why
not equally quick action on an immensely cheaper immigration bill that could
save 100,000 or more jobs?

Quick does not mean hasty. On the contrary. The Simpson-Mazzoli immigration
reform bill is the painstaking, balanced result of years of study, adjustment
and compromise. It would do much more than save jobs. Without being nativist,
racist or mean, it would put the country back in charge of its own borders,
while bringing humane status to illegal immigrants already here.

The Administration supports the bill enthusiastically; so do leading Democrats,
which explains why it passed the Senate in August by a lopsided 80-to-19 margin.
The bill would probably pass the House, too, if it were brought to the floor
during the lame-duck session starting next week. If not, it will die and have to
run the whole Congressional gantlet again next year.

That's where Speaker O'Neill comes in. Making jobs is on his priority list for
the session; saving jobs is on his ''possible'' list. If Mr. O'Neill is truly
concerned about unemployment, not to mention fairness and humanity, he will give
immigration reform the priority it deserves.

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); MEXICO (94%);

COMPANY: US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR  (54%);

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR  (54%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES  UNITED STATES (98%); MEXICO (94%);

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT;
UNITED STATES ECONOMY; LAW AND LEGISLATION; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; ILLEGAL
ALIENS; LABOR  ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (95%); IMMIGRATION (94%); IMMIGRATION LAW
(91%); LEGISLATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); LABOR
FORCE (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); POLITICS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES
(76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES
(66%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              30 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 21, 1982, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

MEXICANS OPPOSE U.S. ENTRY CURBS

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 13, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 893 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 20


Business and political leaders in Mexico have told the United States that
passage of a comprehensive immigration bill now pending in Congress would
seriously harm relations between the two countries and ''foster political
unrest'' if it was effectively enforced.

In a dispatch to Washington, the United States Ambassador to Mexico, John Gavin,
said it was the unanimous opinion of Mexican leaders interviewed by the embassy
that the consequences of the legislation would be ''highly unfavorable for the
U.S. economy and for U.S.-Mexican relations.''

Illegal aliens sent back to Mexico and would-be migrants unable to cross the
border ''would foster political unrest with potentially explosive consequences,
businessmen here told us,'' Mr. Gavin reported.

With the Mexican economy in distress, the peso in turmoil and a new President
set to take office on Dec. 1, Mr. Gavin said, many Mexicans believe this would
be a particularly inauspicious time for the United States to tighten its
immigration law.

Bill Awaits House Action

The bill, sponsored by Senator Alan K. Simpson, Republican of Wyoming, and
Representative Romano L. Mazzoli, a Kentucky Democrat, has passed the Senate and
is awaiting possible House floor action in the special session of Congress that
starts Nov. 29.

Supporters of the bill, seizing on concern over unemployment, say it would open
one million to two million jobs for American citizens.  The heart of the bill is
a system of fines and prison terms for employers who knowingly hire illegal
aliens. The bill would also offer legal status to several million illegal aliens
who entered the United States before 1980.

''Probably between one and two million Mexicans would be forced to return to
Mexico at the one moment'' in its history when ''Mexico is least capable of
generating additional employment,'' Mr. Gavin wrote.

The ambassador's 17-page report drew on conversations with Mexican officials,
businessmen, economists, journalists and academics, including ''scholars
affiliated with the Government.''

The State Department's chief spokesman on immigration, Assistant Secretary Diego
C. Asencio, said in an interview Friday that ''we've been talking to the
Mexicans, we've been listening to them and we have attempted to take their
concerns into account as much as we could.'' The Reagan Administration has
strongly supported the bill, saying it would permit the United States to
re-establish control of its borders.

Patrols Would Be Increased

The bill declares the sense of Congress that there should be a carefully
controlled ''increase in border patrol and other enforcement activities of the
Immigration and Naturalization Service.'' But from Mexico, Mr. Gavin reported
that ''effective enforcement of this measure is seen to require authoritarian
measures amounting to a militarization of the border zone.''

If there is a substantial reduction in money sent home by Mexican workers in the
United States, Mr. Gavin said, the standard of living in some agricultural
regions of Mexico could ''plummet to belowsubsistence levels.''

''At the national level,'' he said, ''lower remittance incomes would deplete the
Bank of Mexico's dollar reserves and aggravate mounting debt payment
difficulties.'' By further depressing the value of the peso, he said, ''these
developments would fuel inflation, which in 1982 has risen to the highest
levels'' in 50 years.

Some Mexicans contend that the ''economic dislocations'' would be ''more
damaging to the United States than to Mexico,'' Mr. Gavin said. According to
this view, ''border zone employers, already suffering sizable market losses due
to this summer's devaluations, would be dealt the additional blow of losing
their principal source of low-wage labor.''

'Second-Class Citizenship' Seen

Mr. Simpson and Mr. Mazzoli say that by granting amnesty to illegal aliens, they
would eliminate an illegal subclass of people who have been exploited by
American employers. But Mr. Gavin said this proposal was seen as ratifying
''second-class citizenship for Mexicans,'' because they would have to pay taxes
in the United States while being ineligible for most social welfare benefits.

United States officials said that Mr. Gavin's description of Mexican attitudes
was invaluable because, as the ambassador said, the official Mexican policy on
illegal migration has been a ''policy of silence.''

Mexicans ''see the migration problem as deeply embedded in the structure of an
international labor market that unites the two countries,'' Mr. Gavin said.
''These economic forces, characterized as a 'push' from Mexico and a much
stronger 'pull' from the United States, defy legal attempts to modify them.''

Thus, he said, ''Mexicans are deeply pessimistic that Simpson-Mazzoli can be
enforced.'' They ''commonly assume that the U.S. economy's demand for foreign
labor is ineradicable, even in a recession; and many maintain a Marxist
world-view leading them to believe business interests dominate Congress, and
thus would never allow Congress to pass or enforce stiff employer sanctions.''

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); MEXICO (99%);

STATE: KENTUCKY, USA (79%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; MEXICO  UNITED STATES (99%); MEXICO (99%);
KENTUCKY, USA (79%);

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; UNITED STATE INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS;
ILLEGAL ALIENS; MIGRANT LABOR; AGRICULTURE; LABOR; LAW AND LEGISLATION
IMMIGRATION (93%); LEGISLATION (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); LEGISLATIVE
BODIES (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); EMBASSIES &
CONSULATES (89%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%);
FOREIGN LABOR (89%); BORDER CONTROL (89%); IMMIGRATION LAW (89%); MIGRANT
WORKERS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); STATE
DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); US PRESIDENTS

 (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); FARM LABOR
(76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (72%); EMPLOYMENT
GROWTH (70%); CRIMINAL FINES (50%);

PERSON: JOHN ANTHONY GOLENOR GAVIN  (72%); ALAN K SIMPSON  (55%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              31 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 21, 1982, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

THEY LOVED NEW YORK

BYLINE: By Edward Hoagland; Edward Hoagland's ''Notes From the Century Before: A
Journal from Britash Columbia'' has just been reissued in paperback.

SECTION: Section 7; Page 3, Column 1; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 1731 words


THE WPA GUIDE TO NEW YORK CITY, The Federal Writers' Project Guide to 1930s New
York.  With a new introduction by William H. Whyte.  Illustrated. 680 pp. New
York: Pantheon Books. Cloth, $20. Paper, $8.95.

THE quintessential New Yorker who reads or writes books is, I like to think,
someone who can drop down out of the sky and hit the ground running. Not just
that he is in a hurry when he gets to La-Guardia, but that he plunges into the
subway at Roosevelt Avenue or heads for Manhattan by taxi with equal aplomb and
savvy. In the same way, metropolitan street wisdom mixes with cosmopolitan
democracy in this succulent guide to New York City put together by Works
Progress Administration writers during the 1930's. It differs from most of the
other WPA guides being reissued in that it hasn't been updated, except for
William H. Whyte's brief new introduction.

An updating would have changed the optics of the book -the special, and now
rather precious, givens that obtained nearly 50 years ago and that quite easily
surmounted the difficulties of its miscellaneous authorship. New Deal tolerance
and Depression brotherhood helped strike this note of unity, but we also have
here a compendium of New York history by anonymous but eloquent writers who
frankly loved the city. Not simply the restaurants, celebrities and gossip but
the entire knit of tradition and immigration, from Algonquin Indians to
Rumanians.

This is food in Spanish Harlem: ''Piled high in racks are avocados (sometimes
called alligator pears), mangoes with their strong flavor of turpentine, guavas
from Cuba, and melon-like papayas, the leaves of which the Puerto Rican wraps
around tough meat to make it tender.  Tamarinds are sold to make a lemonade-like
drink called tamarindo; and the long brown roots of the tropical cassava swing
overhead.''

For a cockfight: ''The place and time are carefully guarded; the audience
gathers surreptitiously in a basement or empty room, where a small shallow
wooden 'ring' has been laid with dirt and sand. The cocks' steel-tipped talons
are examined carefully by their sponsors.  The birds are brushed, caressed,
huskily exhorted, and then let loose amid excited betting and low-pitched
cheering. Not till one of the cocks lies dead is the fight finished. Then the
winner is embraced, washed, and hurried into hiding.''

Even then, the Staten Island Zoo was a world-class snake emporium.  At Sailors'
Snug Harbor (the old-age home which is currently being turned into The Staten
Island Children's Museum), a reporter finds that ''to the amusement and disdain
of some of the inmates a ferryboat captain and several towboat men have been
admitted. The old tars wear blue uniforms.''

The use of stone cut by Sing Sing convicts for building New York University
precipitated one of New York's first labor demonstrations, the so-called Stone
Cutters' Riot. It would have been when Tompkins Square Park, not Union Square,
was the accepted forum for mass protests. And at the Battery: ''The sea
dominates this virile neighborhood. Sou'westers, sea boots, pea jackets, and
dungarees are displayed in the shop windows. ... Here were the homes of the
merchant princes, known as the 'Peep-o'-Day Boys,' because they arose at dawn to
peer across the harbor.''

And: ''The Bowery, dividing line between the Jewish Quarter on the east and
Little Italy on the west, was once an Indian trail used by aborigines in their
expeditions against New Amsterdam. ... From 1860 to 1875 the city's theatrical
life centered here. ... At the National Theater (104 Bowery) Frank S. Chanfrau,
actor-manager, appeared with his brother in a long series of plays about Mose,
the Bowery Paul Bunyan, an epic slugger, eye-gouger, and hobnail-stamper in New
York's rowdy history. The legendary Big Mose was eight feet tall, with hands as
big as hams. In his belt was thrust a butcher's cleaver, and in summer a keg of
beer hung there for his refreshment. He loved to lift a streetcar off its track
and carry it on one hand as a waiter carries a tray, the horses dangling from
their harnesses.''

The Manhattan Bridge's ''triumphal arch and curved colonnade are combined in a
vigorous baroque composition, inspired by the Porte St. Denis, a gateway in
Paris, and the Bernini colonnade that forms the Piazza of St. Peter's in Rome.''

''Pizza'' is ''an unsweetened pastry filled with tomatoes and cheese, meat, or
fish.'' At the Salvation Army's ''buttermilk bar,'' beef stew, oatmeal and
coffee sell for 5 cents. ''The United Homing Pigeon Concourse, one of the
largest racing pigeon organizations in the city, meets at Teutonia Restaurant,
Third Avenue near Sixteenth Street. ... A block north is the German-American
Rathskeller, known in riper days as Scheffel Hall and later as Allaire's. Many
noted writers quaffed its foaming pilsener.''

At twilight on Brooklyn Bridge, the beauty of the setting sun ''attains such
intensity that even the wisecracks of up-to-date lovers are sublimated. And in
the wastes of night, so passionate is the contrast between the deserted and
melancholy bridge entrances and the moonlit altitude of the passage itself, that
the solitary pedestrian feels himself drawn into association with all the
extravagances of the poets.''

However, Bellevue Hospital treated more patients in 1938 than the population of
San Francisco. And there are elevated subway lines above Second, Third, Sixth
and Ninth Avenues in Manhattan. IRT entrances are marked by blue lamps, BMT by
green and white, and IND by green. But the subways are drab and noisy. Proposals
that WPA painters and sculptors decorate the walls ''have been considered.
Meanwhile, the romance of the subways of New York may be found in their
trajectories, and in the intricacy of their construction and operation.''

John Cheever helped edit the guide, and Richard Wright helped write it
(presumably while composing ''Native Son,'' which came out only a year later, in
1940). No doubt it was Wright who made the section on black Harlem so plush with
feeling. This domain where ''those aspiring to racial leadership ... may
advocate their theories unmolested'' is explored in dignified, unblinking
fashion - the poverty of the ''lung blocks'' and ''oatmeal flats''; the Negro
actors and actresses waiting for work next to ''the Tree of Hope,'' growing in
front of the Lafayette Theater; the buildings at ''the Golden Edge'' facing
Central Park, where professional people lived.  On ''Strivers' Row'' on 139th
Street, the brick houses with ''terracotta facades enriched with wrought-iron
balconies ... were designed with considerable artistry in the spirit of the
Florentine Renaissance'' by Stanford White.

BACK downtown, ''The Plaza Hotel is patronized by the wellestablished older
groups of society, though to a war generation it was a rendezvous of youth. ...
The Hotel Pierre has become popular with the Park Avenue crowd for coming-out
parties. The Savoy-Plaza and Sherry-Netherland are residential hotels.'' ''The
small area centering around Beekman and Sutton Places offers an extreme example
of New York's flair for making Mrs. O'Grady and the Colonel's Lady close if
uncommunicative neighbors. Here drying winter flannels are within fishpole reach
of a Wall Street tycoon's windows, and the society woman in her boudoir may be
separated only by a wall from the family on relief in a cold-water flat.''

On First Avenue from 42d to 46th Streets is the Abattoir Center: ''To the past
belong such features as dilapidated shacks, runaway livestock, and strong,
unpleasant odors. Still employed, however, is the Judas bellwether, the sheep
that leads a flock to slaughter. ...  On the wall of the Wilson meat-packing
plant ... is a Tablet commemorating the execution of Nathan Hale (September 22,
1776), which is supposed to have occurred near here.''

Although less opulent with startling narratives than, for example, the WPA's
splendid guide to Louisiana, the New York City guide is more stylish. Manhattan
is vouchsafed a Dos Passosesque impressionistic opening. Thomas Wolfe is quoted
on the Gashouse District. Pages of supple prints enliven the book, better than
the photographs - lowlife lithographs by Eli Jacobi, highlifes by Mabel Dwight
and Peggy Bacon, and, in particular, the dramascapes of Louis Lozowick and Adolf
Dehn.

If one goes now to a newsstand to read about the city in New York magazine, The
New Yorker and The Village Voice, nothing like such universal curiosity, such
love for the city and ease with the informal grit and weave of local history is
evident. The young writers pounding the beat, as well as their editors, are a
different breed.

It's true that wars have intervened. LaGuardia, then in the planning stage as
''North Beach Airport,'' and Kennedy have changed our sense of our lives' scale.
The city is more dangerous to walk in, although 400,000 fewer people live here.
Ultimately it has become a vastly riskier place because we know that we would be
the first to go in a nuclear exchange of what military scientists have taken to
calling ''decapitation.'' Yet we love our children - we love baseball - as much
in a nuclear age. Maybe we are turning into miniaturists, unwilling to trust our
affections to anything as unwieldy and broadbacked as a whole city again.

SOME features are looking up. There is, of course, Mr. Reagan's ''safety net''
nowadays, instead of the Salvation Army's 5-cent stew and oatmeal. Crossing
Brooklyn Bridge on foot once cost a penny, instead of being free. South Brother
Island - in the East River opposite Tiffany Street in the extreme South Bronx -
is today an undespoiled, minute wilderness of Virginia creeper, cat brier and
tree-of-heaven trees, where snowy egrets and black-crowned night herons nest.
But it was described in 1939 as ''seven acres of unimproved brush.''

Incidentally, the Tiffany jewelry store used to be situated on Union Square. And
in the 1890's, off Sheridan Square in Greenwich Village, there lived ''a
notorious but colorful gang of thugs known as the Hudson Dusters. A high
percentage of them were cocaine addicts and thus especially vicious and
ferocious.'' Bank Street, close by, is where the counting houses of Wall Street
relocated during the yellow-fever epidemic of 1822. And Leroy Street is named
for ''the oft-found lost Dauphin of France,'' supposedly buried here.
Anything else you'd like to learn?

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%);

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%);

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%);

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%);   NEW YORK, USA (96%);   NEW YORK, NY, USA
(96%);

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE  BOOK REVIEWS (92%); LITERATURE (78%); WRITERS &
WRITING (78%); FRUIT & JUICE DRINKS (69%); THIS DAY IN HISTORY (67%);
RESTAURANTS (65%); MARINE VESSELS (63%); FERRIES (60%); IMMIGRATION (50%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: drawing

TYPE: Review

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              32 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 14, 1982, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

AROUND THE NATION;
Baby, Deported by U.S., Is Being Returned

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 28, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 92 words

DATELINE: DENVER, Nov. 13


A baby who was deported to Mexico in a raid by Federal immigration agents will
be returned to his family in Colorado, according to the authorities.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service said Friday that the boy,
19-month-old Jaime Lovato, would bebrought back to Colorado by his aunt, who is
caring for him in Mexico.

The child, the son of two illegal aliens fighting to gain American citizenship
in Craig, near Denver, was born in this country and thus is a citizen of the
United States.

COUNTRY: MEXICO (95%); UNITED STATES (94%);

STATE: COLORADO, USA (94%);

CITY: DENVER, CO, USA (94%);

COMPANY: IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE  (84%); IMMIGRATION &
NATURALIZATION SERVICE (84%);

ORGANIZATION: IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE  (84%); IMMIGRATION &
NATURALIZATION SERVICE (84%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MEXICO; UNITED STATES; COLORADO  MEXICO (95%); UNITED STATES (94%);

   COLORADO, USA (94%);   DENVER, CO, USA (94%);

SUBJECT: DEPORTATION; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; CHILDREN AND YOUTH;
CITIZENSHIP  IMMIGRATION (93%); DEPORTATION (93%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (90%); US
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (86%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              33 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 14, 1982, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

LATIN AMERICAN SCHOLAR FIGHTS TO STAY IN U.S.

BYLINE: Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 34, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 656 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 13


There is only one catch as Angel Rama, a Latin American scholar at the
University of Maryland, sees it, and that is, in his words, Catch-28.

Mr. Rama, who has been in the United States since 1969, lecturing on Latin
American literature, is fighting an apparently losing battle against
deportation. The State Department has invoked subsection 212 (a) (28) of the
1952 McCarran-Walter Act on immigration against the Uruguayan-born scholar. The
subsection bars permanent residence to anyone who has been a member of or
affiliated with a Communist Party, and who been involved with Communist
publications.

Mr. Rama appeared before an Immigration and Naturalization Service officer in
Baltimore on Friday at a hearing called to allow him to defend himself against
the evidence the Government says it has gathered against him. But because the
evidence is classified, and therefore considered vital to the nation's security,
Mr. Rama was not allowed to see it.

''This is a crazy story,'' Mr. Rama said. ''I call it my Catch-28.  It's absurd.
It's impossible to move on this case.'' Russell Manchester, who is handling the
case for the immigration service, said that, legally, ''There is no way for us
to make the evidence available to him,'' adding, ''The burden of proof is
entirely upon the individual seeking to establish his residency.''

Of Mr. Rama's troubles, Mr. Manchester said, ''It is not an unusual case and it
will be handled as others like it have been handled.''

Government Position Unchanged

Louis D. Crocetti, the immigration official who met with Mr. Rama for two hours,
said the hearing did not change the Government's position that the scholar
should not be granted status as a permanent resident. The case will be forwarded
to the immigration service's regional office in Vermont, where a decision will
be made.

Mr. Rama is scheduled to go to Spain on a Guggenheim fellowship in January.
Without status as a permanent resident, Mr. Crocetti said he expected it would
be difficult for Mr. Rama to get back into this country.

Mr. Rama, who is 56 years old, asserts that he is neither a Communist nor a
subversive. ''I was never a Communist,'' he said. ''I am a Socialist who writes
about his Socialist beliefs.''

His lawyer, Michael Maggio, who handles many such cases, said Mr.  Rama's case
was unusual in that he denies any past affiliation with a Communist
organization. In most cases, Mr. Maggio said, individuals admit to having been
members of Communist or subversive groups and subsequently renounce those ties.

Tenured at Maryland U.

Last year, Mr. Rama received tenure as a professor of Spanish literature at the
University of Maryland where Graciela Nemes, a professor in the department of
Spanish and Portuguese, said: ''He's really not the man they say he is. If he
leaves it would be a crushing blow to the university, to the department and to
the students.''

Mr. Rama's ordeal apparently had its genesis in Montevideo, the capital of
Uruguay, in 1969. It was there, he explained, while applying for a United States
visa to teach at the University of Puerto Rico that he was asked about a trip he
made to China in 1962, visits he made to Cuba and about his writings in
Semenario Marcha, a Uruguayan-based magazine that he compared with the liberal
American publication The Nation.

Mr. Rama wrote a series of articles for the magazine in the 1960's about
reported attempts by the United States Central Intelligence Agency to finance
and infiltrate Latin American intelligence organizations. Mr. Rama said that
most of the information he used in the series had been culled from The New York
Times.

He is also the literary editor of Biblioteca Ayacucho, a Venezuelan-based
publishing house, which, like the magazine Semenario Marcha, frequently
publishes the works of Communist writers.

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (93%); URUGUAY (79%); SPAIN (79%);

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (94%); VERMONT, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (75%);

CITY: MANCHESTER, NH, USA (75%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (58%);

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND  (91%); UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (91%);

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND  (91%); UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (91%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; LATIN AMERICA  UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA
(93%); URUGUAY (79%); SPAIN (79%);   MARYLAND, USA (94%); VERMONT, USA (79%);
NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (75%);   MANCHESTER, NH, USA (75%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (58%);



SUBJECT: DEPORTATION; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION  IMMIGRATION (92%); COLLEGES &
UNIVERSITIES (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); IMMIGRATION LAW
(89%); LITERATURE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); DEPORTATION (77%);
POLITICAL PARTIES (70%); BURDENS OF PROOF (70%); NATIONAL SECURITY (70%);
LAWYERS (67%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              34 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 14, 1982, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

FOREIGN SEAMEN ABANDONED ON DECREPIT SHIP

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

SECTION: Section 1; Part 2; Page 63, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 659 words


Seventeen foreign seamen lived on a rat-infested floating slum on the Brooklyn
waterfront for months and endured a lack of plumbing and electricity on a ship
that had been abandoned by its anonymous owner, according to a seamen's
advocate.

The seamen, Central Americans who speak no English, had been bound to the ship
by immigration laws and by their desire to work. On Wednesday, the Seaman's
Church Institutions placed them at a hotel for seafarers.

''We did it for just plain humanitarian reasons,'' said the advocate, Paul
Chapman, director of the Center for Seafarers' Rights. ''Their lives were just
miserable.''

The seamen had been recruited by a shipping agent in Costa Rica and Nicaragua,
according to Mr. Chapman. The agent had signed them on at $200 a month - plus $1
an hour in overtime -to fix the Sea Lift, a 7,000-ton cargo vessel, and serve as
its crew.

Began Arriving in June

Starting in June, groups of seamen flew from Central America to New York, where
they were met by the agent and taken to the ship. The seamen had paid their own
way, a violation of marine law, Mr. Chapman said.

Once here, they went to work. The lack of running water and toilet facilities
raised a stench. The seamen huddled against the autumn chill in the heatless
ship. Huge holes opened up in the rusty decks.  Rats ran through the ship's
bowels.

Two months ago, Mr.Chapman said, the wages were stopped.  ''Their visas are for
seamen,'' he said, ''so their only legal status is as seamen. They would have to
get approval from immigration officials to leave. Also, they expected to work,
and they were always hopeful that the ship could be fixed and they would put out
for sea.''

At one point, some members of the crew went out for an evening to escape the Sea
Lift. They were attacked and hit with bottles, Mr.  Chapman said.

Accident in the Galley

In September, a chef scalded his legs while cooking in the darkened galley,
which, like the rest of the ship, had no electricity. He stayed aboard for days
while his mates tried to get help from the owner or agent. The chef wound up
paying for his own hospital stay.

Two weeks ago, he placed a lien on the ship to pay those bills.  Other seamen
filed their own claims for unpaid wages, and the Federal Government has
confiscated the ship to pay those claims.

The Port Authority of New York and New Jersey has also filed suit to recover
$95,000 in docking fees the ship had incurred, according to J. A. Selcov, an
authority lawyer.

Mr. Chapman said that finding the ship's owners is nearly impossible. The Sea
Lift has changed owners numerous times - it was once named the Opal -and it is
believed that it is now owned by an American.

But until its registration lapsed recently, the Sea Lift was registered in
Liberia, Mr. Chapman said. Liberian registration is a ''flag of convenience''
that gives the owner anonymity, according to Mr. Chapman.

Attempts Made to Find Owner

Capt. Bill Chadwick, chief of the marine investigations division of Liberian
Services Inc., said his organization was ''urgently investigating'' the
situation.

Mr. Chapman said Odyssey Marine Enterprise was the agent, but calls there were
referred to another company, Excelsior Maritime Ltd. That company's phone has
been temporarily disconnected. Aristotle Voulgaris, who is connected with those
companies, according to Mr.  Chapman, was said to have been on the ship Friday,
but a phone at the ship was not answered.

Mr. Chapman said his group hoped to raise enough money to send the seamen back
to their homes on Tuesday. It is expected that the proceeds from the sale of the
ship will pay for their expenses in the long run, but Mr. Chapman said the Sea
Lift was good only for scrap.

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (61%);

 SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (61%);

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); CENTRAL AMERICA (88%); COSTA RICA (79%); NICARAGUA

 (79%);

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%);

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%);

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (61%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; CENTRAL AMERICA  UNITED STATES (91%); CENTRAL
AMERICA (88%); COSTA RICA (79%); NICARAGUA (79%);   NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEW
JERSEY, USA (79%);   NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%);

SUBJECT: SHIPS AND SHIPPING; LABOR  ARMED FORCES (90%); MARINE SHIPPING (90%);
IMMIGRATION (89%); HARBORS & PORTS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (88%); MARINE VESSELS

 (78%); TRANSPORTATION SUPPORT SERVICES (78%); POWER FAILURES (78%); IMMIGRATION
LAW (76%); WAGE VIOLATIONS (73%); OVERTIME (73%); HARBOR & PORT OPERATIONS
(73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (68%); BACK PAY (68%); PORT AUTHORITIES (63%); SUITS &
CLAIMS (61%); LITIGATION (50%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              35 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 14, 1982, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

IDEAS & TRENDS;
Visions of a Smaller and Older America

BYLINE: By Margot Slade and Wayne Biddle

SECTION: Section 4; Page 8, Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 259 words


Once an ecology slogan of the 1960's, ''zero population growth'' may be the
American reality of the 2050's, according to Census Bureau projections issued
last week. By then, the number of Americans should have peaked at 309 million
and started to decline, as deaths exceed total births and net immigration.

It was the first time the bureau had described zero population growth as its
''most likely assumption'' for the nation's future, said Gregory K. Spencer, a
demographic statistician. Other demographers said the bureau's figures
approximated their own, but the projections could prove wrong. They have been
off-base before because of changes in factors such as birthrate.

If the Census Bureau's projections are borne out, the country will be top-heavy
with elderly people. In 1981, people age 65 and older accounted for 11.4 percent
of the population. The bureau foresaw that the figure would rise to 21.7 percent
in 2050. The ratio of workingage population (18 to 64 years old) to elderly will
continue shifting, the bureau said, from 5.4 to 1 now - that is 54 working-age
people for every 10 elderly people - to 2.6 to 1, or 26 working-age people for
every 10 elderly, in 2050. Moreover, the elderly will include a higher
proportion of the very old - age 85 and over, the bureau said. This ''graying''
of America will have severe implications for Social Security and other programs,
since fewer wage earners will be supporting increasing numbers of the elderly.

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%);

COMPANY: ZERO POPULATION GROWTH  (93%); US CENSUS BUREAU  (93%); ZERO POPULATION
GROWTH (93%); US CENSUS BUREAU (93%);

ORGANIZATION: ZERO POPULATION GROWTH  (93%); US CENSUS BUREAU  (93%); ZERO
POPULATION GROWTH (93%); US CENSUS BUREAU (93%);

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%);

SUBJECT: POPULATION; FORECASTS  CENSUS (92%); POPULATION ESTIMATES & PROJECTIONS

 (92%); AGING (90%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); TRENDS (90%); DEMOGRAPHIC
GROUPS (90%); SENIOR CITIZENS (90%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (90%);
POPULATION GROWTH (90%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); NEWS
BRIEFS (74%); IMMIGRATION (56%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              36 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 8, 1982, Monday, Late City Final Edition

STAGE: BRITISH 'TWO FISH IN THE SKY'

BYLINE: By FRANK RICH

SECTION: Section C; Page 13, Column 1; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 716 words


THE Phoenix Theater, one of this city's most venerable theatrical institutions,
surely has good reasons for opening its 30thanniversary season with Michael
Hastings's ''Two Fish in the Sky.'' Sad to say, those reasons are not readily
apparent on stage at the Phoenix's new home, the Theater at St. Peter's Church,
where this minuscule British farce was unveiled last night.

''Two Fish in the Sky,'' which was first produced in England four years ago
under the title ''Gloo Joo,'' is about an unemployed Jamaican living in London's
Brixton ghetto and his efforts to outwit a pair of immigration authorities, who
wish to deport him. Its central conflict is bone tired. The Jamaican, Meadowlark
Rachel Warner (Cleavon Little), is an irrepressible free spirit and goodnatured
confidence artist; his anatagonists (Gavin Reed and Christopher Murney) are
petty British bureaucrats, who inevitably must learn that Meadowlark knows more
about the joie de vivre, if not legalistic niceties, than they do.

The play's predictable resolution is endlessly delayed by an illshapen, noisy
and unrewardingly complex plot, much of which also deals with Meadowlark's
flim-flams of the two women in his life (Laura Esterman and Lorraine Toussaint).
The one halfway lively comic payoff occurs early in Act II, when for reasons too
boring to explain, Meadowlark marries one of the women in a Jewish ceremony
conducted by a pixieish rabbi (Michael Tucker) at Gatwick Airport.  While this
isn't the first time that a playwright has tried to get laughs by putting a
black man in a yarmulke, Mr. Hastings does devise a few mildly giggly variations
on the theme.

The other jokes are tiresome. Many of them are racial epithets, which are
supposed to be ironically funny in the manner of Archie Bunker's, but which Mr.
Hastings, short of other comic inspiration, repeats without variation nearly to
the point of offensiveness. They are not redeemed by the play's subsidiary
thematic twist, in which the cruder immigration officer suddenly discovers that
he and Meadowlark share the same proletarian class consciousness. The attempts
to parody bureaucratese are equally lame: the officials repeatedly recite
chapter and verse of the Amended Commonwealth Immigration Act of 1971. When one
thinks of the fun other writers have had with the doublespeak of small-minded
British civil servants - starting with Harold Pinter in ''The Hothouse'' - the
paucity of invention here is astounding.

''Two Fish in the Sky'' would stand a chance only if there were a charismatic,
bubbly actor in the lead, but Mr. Little's Meadowlark never flies: his
performance is as thick and strained as his ersatz accent. Under the direction
of Steven Robman, the supporting cast is often excruciatingly broad, with only
Mr. Tucker and Mr. Reed fighting a losing battle for subtlety. Except for them
and for Wynn P. Thomas's atmospheric scenery, the rest of the production is
ashes from which the Phoenix could not rise a moment too soon.

Uncivil Servants
TWO FISH IN THE SKY, by Michael Hastings; di- rected by Steven Robman; scenery
by Wynn P.  Thomas; costumes by Robert Wojewodski; lighting by Arden Fingerhut;
sound by David Rapkin. Presented by the Phoenix Theater, T.  Edward Hambleton,
managing director; Mr.  Robman, artistic director, and Harold Sogard, general
manager. At the Theater at St. Peter's in the Citicorp Center, Lexington Avenue
and 54th Street.  Raymond Borral .............................Gavin Reed
Meadowlark Rachel Warner ...............Cleavon Little Gerald Radinski
....................Christopher Murney Irene Connor
...........................Laura Esterman Edna Walter
........................Lorraine Toussaint Elliott Brucknell
......................Michael Tucker

COUNTRY: ENGLAND (79%);

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (57%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ENGLAND (79%);   LONDON, ENGLAND (57%);

SUBJECT: THEATER  THEATER (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (89%); IMMIGRATION (88%);
IMMIGRATION LAW (88%); ANNIVERSARIES (86%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); DRAMA
LITERATURE (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); JEWS & JUDAISM (76%); CLERGY &
RELIGIOUS (71%); WRITERS & WRITING (69%);

PERSON: CLEAVON JAKE LITTLE  (56%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: Photo of Cleavon Little

TYPE: Review

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              37 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 7, 1982, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

TRIESTE HURT BY YUGOSLAVS' TRAVEL STRICTURES

BYLINE: Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 6, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 699 words

DATELINE: TRIESTE, Italy


Until mid-October this was a city of lively traffic between East and West, but
now only an occasional car appears at the border to give immigration and customs
officials something to do.

As a result, this city at the head of the Adriatic Sea, once a great marketplace
where Yugoslavs by the thousands came daily to buy the consumer goods of the
West, bewails a heavy loss of business.  Sadly, Trieste ponders one more blow
from history, which has reduced it from being the only - and flourishing - port
of the vast Austro-Hungarian empire to a backwater of Italy.

The Yugoslavs stopped coming on Oct. 17, ''black Sunday'' for the extensive
retail economy that existed here and in the border town of Gorizia, 26 miles to
the north, to satisfy a large consumer market that had money but a limited
supply of attractive goods on which to spend it. On that day the Yugoslav
Government, owing more than $20 billion to Western creditors, decided to limit
the outflow of private money.

Yugoslavs who want to travel abroad were ordered to deposit 5,000 dinars, or
roughly $80, for the first trip, and to increase that deposit by 2,000 dinars
for each subsequent border crossing. The money, without interest, is to be
returned at the end of a year, when Yugoslavia's inflation will have reduced its
value.

Long Lines of Vehicles Vanish

Because 5,000 dinars represents close to one-half of the average Yugoslav's
monthly earnings, the effect of the measure was immediate. The permanent lines
of cars and buses at the border crossings, which became endless between Friday
afternoons and Sunday evenings, vanished.

So did the customers from the sprawling markets at Piazza Ponterosso and in
front of the railroad station, which sold mainly blue jeans and other low-priced
garments, and from the shops in the large central district that catered to the
border trade.

In addition to textiles they sold groceries, cleaning products, medicines,
household appliances and fixtures, construction tools and materials, electronic
equipment, watches, jewelry and a whole line of notions.

Estimates vary for the value of what Elio Geppi, head of the Trieste union of
entrepreneurs, called ''this new category, retail exports.'' He put the annual
volume at about $32 million. Other estimates range as high as $42 million.

Yugoslav officials have assured Italy that there is no political significance to
the restrictive measures caused by economic strains.

No 'Berlin Wall' Planned

''We will not build a Berlin wall,'' said Franc Setinc, a Yugoslav leader sent
here to reassure the Slovinian minority worried about their families across the
border.

This city of 250,000 inhabitants has the retail structure for a city twice its
size. Until ''black Sunday,'' Italian and foreign residents agree, it was being
suffocated by bus and auto traffic more suited to a city of a million.

''You couldn't see the sea for parked buses along the waterfront,'' said Alberta
Ercolessi, a secretary.  Now the Piazza Ponterosso, along the unusual canal-boat
basin that juts from the Adriatic Sea into the center of the city, is a place of
mourning.

A 47-year-old trader, who said he had dealt here for 25 years, following in his
mother's footsteps, said he would have to close if the Government could not
persuade the Yugoslav Government to ease the restrictions.

Mr. Geppi said the drying up of the ''retail exports'' endangered 2,500 to 3,500
jobs in a city with a labor force of 90,000, with about 5,000 already jobless.

Mounds of coffee beans remain piled in many shops, to the relief of the post
office. Its operations had been clogged and delayed by the multitude of
two-pound coffee packages that Yugoslavs sent by the dozens for resale at home,
where coffee brings five or six times the Italian price.

At Nova Gorica, on the other side of the border, clothing shops, which are also
well stocked although fashion is less high and variety less great, reported far
more active trade.

COUNTRY: ITALY (94%); GERMANY (92%);

STATE: MEDITERRANEAN SEA (92%);

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (92%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;YUGOSLAVIA; ITALY; TRIESTE); GORIZIA)  ITALY (94%); GERMANY (92%);
   MEDITERRANEAN SEA (92%);   BERLIN, GERMANY (92%);

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES  IMMIGRATION (92%);
TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (90%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (89%); BORDER CONTROL
(89%); FAMILY (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); MOTOR VEHICLES (73%); INTERNATIONAL
TOURISM (72%); POLISHES & SANITATION GOODS (71%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (71%); EXPORT
TRADE (66%); TEXTILES (62%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              38 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 1, 1982, Monday, Late City Final Edition

AROUND THE NATION;
Coast Aliens Defrauded In Sale of False Papers

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 12, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 125 words

DATELINE: SANTA ANA, Calif., Oct. 31


Swindlers posing as immigration experts are bilking thousands of dollars from
illegal aliens by selling them false amnesty papers, Orange County officials
say.

''The undocumented alien thinks he is buying permission to be in this country
when in reality he is not getting anything,'' said Robert Nava of the county
Human Relations Commission. ''I have had at least 10 people in my office in the
last week'' who were fraud victims, he added.

Officials said some aliens have heard of a Reagan Administration proposal to
grant legal status to aliens who came to the country before 1977 and to provide
temporary legal residency to immigrants who arrived before 1980. However, that
bill is still in Congress.

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%);

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%);

CITY: SANTA ANA, CA, USA (59%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES  UNITED STATES (93%);   CALIFORNIA, USA (93%);
SANTA ANA, CA, USA (59%);

SUBJECT: ILLEGAL ALIENS; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION
ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (94%); IMMIGRATION (93%); COUNTIES (91%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT
(91%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              39 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 29, 1982, Friday, Late City Final Edition

QUICK ACTION VOWED ON AMERASIANS

BYLINE: By COLIN CAMPBELL, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 3, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 562 words

DATELINE: BANGKOK, Thailand, Oct. 28


Attorney General William French Smith said here today that the Reagan
Administration would act ''just as quickly as we can'' to carry out a new law
that permits the Asian children of American fathers to go live in the United
States.

After a visit Wednesday to two of Thailand's camps for Indochinese refugees, Mr.
Smith also said he would speed up and expand the local operations of the
Immigration and Naturalization Service so that it could determine faster which
refugees were eligible for admission to the United States, and could then get
them there sooner.

Thailand's Prime Minister, Gen. Prem Tinsulanonda, and other officials have said
publicly that the United States and other Western governments are falling behind
in their promises to take more refugees off Thailand's hands.

Mr. Smith added, however, that public resistance in America to accepting
countless refugees had grown stronger. And he said he had talked today with
General Prem about making ''a major effort'' to return unsettled refugees to
their countries of origin, ''including Vietnam if possible.''

23-Day Asian Trip

In an interview, the Attorney General also said that ''it is a very nice
question'' what ''repatriation'' means in a place like Cambodia, where thousands
of people have been encouraged to return to insecure border areas under the
control of Cambodian guerrillas opposed both to the regime in Phnom Penh and to
Vietnam's military occupation of most of the country.

Mr. Smith and ranking members of the Justice Department, including the
Commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization Service, Alan C. Nelson, are
on a 23-day trip to Japan, Hong Kong, Thailand, Pakistan, Italy and France for
talks on narcotics trafficking as well as refugees.

The main obstacle confronting Amerasian children wanting to leave Vietnam, the
Attorney General said, is likely to be the Hanoi Government. But he said he
hoped the children could now leave by a faster and ''more efficient process''
than many had left through Vietnam's ''orderly departure program.''

The new United States law, signed by President Reagan this month, allows
Amerasian children in South Korea, Vietnam, Laos, Cambodia and Thailand to prove
without any accompanying declarations by their fathers that they are half
American and should therefore be eligible for admission to the United States.
The law empowers the Attorney General to make such determinations, and the
Reagan Administration is formulating the law's rules and regulations.

Dealings With Hanoi an Issue

Mr. Smith said he did not know yet just how the United States would deal with
Vietnam, where there are estimated to be from 8,000 to 25,000 or more Amerasian
children. Washington has practically no formal contact with Hanoi.

The new law makes no provision for the admission of a child's mother or
half-siblings. Several American officials who have worked with Vietnamese
Amerasians and their families have expressed private doubts over the willingness
of mothers to sign over their children to voluntary agencies or foster parents
in the United States, as the new law requires. Very few American fathers have
claimed their Vietnamese children and fewer still have asked to take them into
their homes.

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); VIET NAM (96%); CAMBODIA (94%); THAILAND (94%);
VIETNAM (93%); FRANCE (79%); LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC (79%); JAPAN
(79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); PAKISTAN (79%);

CITY: HANOI, VIETNAM (93%); BANGKOK, THAILAND (93%); PHNOM PENH, CAMBODIA (54%);



COMPANY: IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE  (57%); IMMIGRATION &
NATURALIZATION SERVICE (57%);

ORGANIZATION: IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE  (57%); IMMIGRATION &
NATURALIZATION SERVICE (57%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; VIETNAM  UNITED STATES (99%); VIET NAM (96%);
CAMBODIA (94%); THAILAND (94%); VIETNAM (93%); FRANCE (79%); LAO PEOPLE'S
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC (79%); JAPAN (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); PAKISTAN
(79%);   HANOI, VIETNAM (93%); BANGKOK, THAILAND (93%); PHNOM PENH, CAMBODIA
(54%);

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; VIETNAM WAR; LAW AND
LEGISLATION  JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (91%); REFUGEES (91%); IMMIGRATION (90%);
ATTORNEYS GENERAL (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%);
VIETNAM WAR (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); INTERVIEWS (75%); LAW
ENFORCEMENT (72%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (71%); REFUGEE & RELIEF CAMPS
(71%); PRIME MINISTERS (70%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (50%);

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (63%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              40 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 25, 1982, Monday, Late City Final Edition

Deportation Sought for Man Accused in '43 Killing of Jews

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 12, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 95 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 24


The Government has moved to deport Bohdan Koziy, a 59-year-old native of the
Ukraine who is accused of shooting to death a Jewish child and taking part in
the murder of a Jewish family in 1943.

The Justice Department announced last week that it had filed an order in Federal
Immigration Court in Miami seeking Mr. Koziy's deportation.

Federal District Judge James C. Paine of West Palm Beach, Fla., revoked Mr.
Koziy's United States citizenship in March after a threeweek trial.

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); UKRAINE (90%);

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (92%);

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (91%);

COMPANY: PALM BEACH HOTEL (57%);   US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE  (58%); US
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (58%);

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE  (58%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (58%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES  UNITED STATES (92%); UKRAINE (90%);   FLORIDA, USA
(92%);   MIAMI, FL, USA (91%);

SUBJECT: NAZI ERA; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; DECISIONS AND VERDICTS
DEPORTATION (91%); JEWS & JUDAISM (90%); SHOOTINGS (90%); MURDER (90%);
IMMIGRATION (88%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (88%); IMMIGRATION LAW (86%); LAW
ENFORCEMENT (85%); JUDGES (83%); CITIZENSHIP (82%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              41 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              October 23, 1982, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

Last Two Haitians Held in Miami Are Released: Avel Dorvilier, foreground, is
congradulated by Justin Manuel, a resettlement official, after Mr Dorvilier's
release from the Krome detention center of the Immigration and Naturalization
Service. Mr. Dorvilier and another man were the last of about 1,600 Haitians
seized by U.S.  officials last year after fleeing their Caribbean nation on
boats.  Judge Eugene Spellman ordered their release, citing a violation of
procedural rules by the I.N.S.

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: Section 1; Page 6, Column 3; National Desk

COUNTRY: HAITI (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (74%);

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (91%);

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (91%);

COMPANY: IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE  (93%); IMMIGRATION &
NATURALIZATION SERVICE (91%);

ORGANIZATION: IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE  (93%); IMMIGRATION &
NATURALIZATION SERVICE (91%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; HAITI; FLORIDA; MIAMI (FLA)  HAITI (94%); UNITED
STATES (93%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (74%);   FLORIDA, USA (91%);   MIAMI, FL, USA
(91%);

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; REFUGEES AND EXPATRIATES  IMMIGRATION
(92%); REFUGEES (89%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Caption

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              42 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              October 21, 1982, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

Two Bulgarians Jump Ship

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 8, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 54 words

DATELINE: ASTORIA, Ore., Oct. 20


Two Bulgarian crewmen jumped ship early today at the Port of Astoria and went to
the police, according to Carl Houseman, acting director of the United States
Immigration and Naturalization Service in Portland. Mr. Houseman said he did not
know whether the men had sought political asylum.

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); BULGARIA (92%);

STATE: OREGON, USA (94%);

CITY: PORTLAND, OR, USA (94%);

COMPANY: US CITIZENSHIP & IMMIGRATION SERVICES (91%);

ORGANIZATION: US CITIZENSHIP & IMMIGRATION SERVICES (91%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;BULGARIA; UNITED STATES  UNITED STATES (94%); BULGARIA (92%);
OREGON, USA (94%);   PORTLAND, OR, USA (94%);

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; REFUGEES AND EXPATRIATES  IMMIGRATION
(93%); REFUGEES (83%); POLITICAL ASYLUM (83%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              43 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              October 20, 1982, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

NEW ASIAN ALIENS CONCERN OFFICIALS

BYLINE: Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 18, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 590 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Oct. 19


Refugees from the impoverished South Asian country of Bangladesh have begun
making their way illegally into the United States by way of the Bahamas, the
immigration authorities here said today.

Officials of the Immigration and Naturalization Service estimate that as many as
400 Bangladesh citizens may have arrived illegally in Florida since June and
then fanned out through the country, and they say thousands more may follow.

Dwayne Peterson, the chief of the antismuggling unit of the Border Patrol in
Miami, said the Bangladesh aliens who had come here so far were from a community
of some 15,000 Bangladeshis who had been living in West Germany. He said they
had also entered West Germany illegally, but after years of legal appeals had
been told they must leave.

Numbers Hard to Estimate

The estimate of 400 illegal aliens from Bangladesh comes from interviews with 57
caught while attempting to enter this country. To immigrate to the United States
legally can be a long and complicated process and relatively few who apply are
accepted.

As an initial step toward ending the influx in the early stages, Mr. Peterson
said, the Federal Government has asked the Bahamian Government to begin
requiring visas of the Bangladeshis.

The Bahamas and Bangladesh, formerly known as East Pakistan, are former British
colonies, and Bangladesh citizens can travel to the Bahamas without obtaining
visas.

Bahamian Island a Staging Point

The Bahamian island of Bimini, about 50 miles southeast of Florida, has been a
''notorious jumping-off point'' for many illegal aliens heading for Florida, Mr.
Peterson said. It is relatively easy, he said, to hire a small boat or airplane
in Bimini that will deliver aliens to Florida.

Mr. Peterson said the Bangladesh refugees have been taking commercial flights
from West Germany to the Bahamas, then taking commuter flights to Bimini, where
they pay about $950 for a clandestine journey to Florida. A regular one-way
seaplane trip from Bimini to Miami costs $45.

In late 1981, Mr. Peterson said, the State Department presented evidence to the
Bahamian Government that Colombians were using the islands as a base for illegal
immigration to the United States. In response, he said, the Bahamian Government
acted within five days to require Colombian tourists to the islands to obtain
visas.

That move significantly slowed the smuggling of Colombians, he said.  He said
that unlike other refugee groups entering South Florida, the Bangladeshis were
generally well educated and ''capable of taking technical jobs away from U.S.
citizens.''

Beverly McFarland, a Miami spokesman for the immigration service, said one group
of six Bangladesh men had made their way to Fort Lauderdale, then offered a taxi
driver $1,500 to take them to New York.

About half of the 57 Bangladeshis under arrest are in the custody of Federal
marshals as material witnesses since they were caught in the company of their
smugglers. The rest are being held in the Krome Detention Center in Miami
awaiting deportation hearings.

----

Most Haitians End Hunger Strike

MIAMI, Oct. 19 (AP) - Most of the 26 Haitians at the Krome Avenue detention
center ended a two-day hunger strike by showing up for breakfast today,
immigration officials said.

The hunger strikers were reacting to a weekend report that only two Haitians
were still being held at Krome, said the Rev. Gerard Jean-Juste of the Haitian
Refugee Center Inc.

COUNTRY: BANGLADESH (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); BAHAMAS (96%); ASIA (94%);
GERMANY (93%); HAITI (79%);

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (97%);

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (94%); FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (58%);

COMPANY: IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE  (84%); IMMIGRATION &
NATURALIZATION SERVICE (84%);

ORGANIZATION: IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE  (84%); IMMIGRATION &
NATURALIZATION SERVICE (84%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; HAITI; BANGLADESH; COLOMBIA; FLORIDA  BANGLADESH
(98%); UNITED STATES (97%); BAHAMAS (96%); ASIA (94%); GERMANY (93%); HAITI
(79%);   FLORIDA, USA (97%);   MIAMI, FL, USA (94%); FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA
(58%);

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; ILLEGAL ALIENS  IMMIGRATION (94%); REFUGEES

 (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW
(90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); SMUGGLING (89%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (89%); SPECIAL
INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); MARSHALS (77%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS
(74%); BORDER CONTROL (73%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (69%);
WITNESSES (61%); ARRESTS (61%); APPEALS (54%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              44 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 17, 1982, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

International-Aid Organization Elects an Executive Director

SECTION: Section 1; Part 2; Page 57, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 157 words


Frank C. Kiehne has been elected the executive director of Private Agencies in
International Development, a new organization that says it will seek to
stimulate private assistance to underdeveloped countries.

Mr. Kiehne had been the interim director of the immigration and refugee program
for the Church World Service of the National Council of Churches in New York
City.

Private Agencies in International Development, based in Washington, coordinates
the work of 78 international voluntary agencies, among them CARE, Goodwill
Industries and the Population Council.

The group's president, Elise F. Smith, explained its mission as follows: ''This
new umbrella group was initiated to tie in with the President's call for
increased private sector initiative. It will greatly improve the ability of
private agencies to cut red tape in helping solve the vast arena of problems in
the third world.''

INDUSTRY: SIC1611 HIGHWAY & STREET CONSTRUCTION;

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%);

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%);

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%);

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT & CONSTRUCTION CO (91%);   CHURCH WORLD
SERVICE  (58%); NATIONAL COUNCIL OF THE CHURCHES OF CHRIST IN THE USA (58%);
CHURCH WORLD SERVICE (58%); POPULATION COUNCIL  (57%); POPULATION COUNCIL (57%);



ORGANIZATION: CHURCH WORLD SERVICE  (58%); NATIONAL COUNCIL OF THE CHURCHES OF
CHRIST IN THE USA (58%); CHURCH WORLD SERVICE (58%); POPULATION COUNCIL  (57%);
POPULATION COUNCIL (57%);

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%);   NEW YORK, USA (92%);   NEW YORK, NY, USA
(92%);

SUBJECT: THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES; PHILANTHROPY  DEVELOPING
COUNTRIES (90%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); INTERNATIONAL
ASSISTANCE (90%); IMMIGRATION (88%); REFUGEES (87%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (71%);
RELIGION (71%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              45 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              October 14, 1982, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

AGENDA FOR BONN OUTLINED BY KOHL

BYLINE: By JAMES M. MARKHAM, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 5, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 904 words

DATELINE: BONN, Oct. 13


Setting a new agenda for West Germany at home and abroad, Chancellor Helmut Kohl
declared today that his conservative Government would encourage private
investment, trim welfare spending, restrict foreign immigration and ''reinforce
and stabilize'' its relations with the United States.

Evoking strands of continuity with the Christian Democratic era of Konrad
Adenauer, the 52-year-old Mr. Kohl unveiled before Parliament a Government
program that stressed individual initiative in its domestic policies and put
fresh emphasis on West Germany's central place in the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization.

''The question for the future is not how much more the state can do for its
citizens,'' proclaimed Mr. Kohl, who two weeks ago replaced Chancellor Helmut
Schmidt. ''The question for the future is how can freedom, dynamism and
self-reliance blossom anew. It is upon this idea that this coalition of the
middle is founded.''

Saying his new Government had inherited ''the worst economic crisis'' since the
establishment of the Federal Republic in 1949, Mr. Kohl said his new coalition
had come to power to prevent ''the decline turning into a crash.''

Some Programs Being Cut

The Chancellor said that, with productivity and capital-formation shrinking,
15,000 companies had gone bankrupt this year and 2.5 million West Germans would
be out of work this winter. Without proposed budget cuts of $2.2 billion, he
said, the federal budget deficit in 1983 could have reached $23.8 billion.

Calling for a ''pause to catch our breath'' in the development of the country's
welfare system, Chancellor Kohl said his Government would delay increases in
pensions, cut unemployment benefits, limit subsidized hospital stays and
encourage early retirements ''without further burdening the old-age pension
system.''

''We will preserve the welfare state by strengthening its economic
underpinnings,'' declared the Chancellor.  Giving few details, Mr. Kohl said the
coalition would ease taxes for small businesses, channel spending into
investment in urban renewal, schools and Government housing, and use a special
tax on high-income groups to finance new housing starts. He said the Government
would develop cable television, satellite communications and nuclear energy -
all of which were given low priority by the Schmidt Government.

Control of Immigration

He said he would prevent ''an unlimited and uncontrolled immigration'' of
foreign workers, who now total 4.6 million in West Germany, some 1.5 million of
them Turks. The Chancellor said that the immigration of foreign workers'
children would be restricted, and that ''guest workers'' would have to choose
between integration into German society or returning home.

Mr. Kohl, who is expected to make an official visit to Washington next month,
said he would ''free German-American ties from the unfavorable light in which
they now appear, and reinforce and stabilize the friendship.'' He said his
Government unconditionally supports the NATO decision to deploy medium-range
nuclear missiles in Western Europe next year if there is no breakthrough in
armslimitation negotiations in Geneva.

''Only if the Soviet Union knows that it must definitely reckon with the
stationing of American systems in Europe at the end of 1983 can one count on
their readiness to contribute to the negotiation results,'' said Mr. Kohl, who
said he would defend the disputed deployment in his own country.

The new Chancellor said the banning of the independent union Solidarity ''is not
only a broken promise to the Polish people, not only a violation of the Helsinki
Final Act, but a surprise coup against the Polish people.''

Difference on Madrid Talks

Mr. Kohl, however, put his Government at odds with the Reagan Administration by
urging that the Madrid review conference, which next month resumes its
consideration of compliance with the Helsinki human rights accords, should
strive to reach agreement on a European disarmament conference. The Reagan
Administration maintains that the crackdown in Poland has made ''business as
usual'' in Madrid unthinkable.

The Chancellor avoided any direct mention of the outstanding dispute between the
United States and its Western European allies over the Siberian natural-gas
pipeline, but he said that economic ties to Eastern Europe were ''an important
part of the whole East-West relationship.'' He added that NATO security
interests would of course be kept in mind in developing such ties.

While sounding themes of considerable continuity on many foreign policy
questions, Mr. Kohl and the Christian Democrats are more outspoken on the issue
of eventual German unification. ''We cannot force the unity of the nation,''
said the Chancellor. ''Walls, barbed wire and the order to shoot cannot be the
last word between East and West, in Germany, in Europe and the world. Humanity
and reason refuse to accept this.''

At the same time, Mr. Kohl said his Government would demand that East Germany
lift recent increases in the minimum foreign exchange requirements for West
Germans visiting the East.

COUNTRY: GERMANY (97%); UNITED STATES (95%);

STATE: ATLANTIC OCEAN (57%);

CITY: BONN, GERMANY (88%);

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION  (57%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY
ORGANIZATION (57%);

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION  (57%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY
ORGANIZATION (57%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;WEST GERMANY  GERMANY (97%); UNITED STATES (95%);   ATLANTIC OCEAN
(57%);   BONN, GERMANY (88%);

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CAPITAL
INVESTMENT; GOVERNMENTAL AID (NON-US); IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; UNITED STATE
INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ECONOMIC PLANNING  IMMIGRATION (93%); CONSERVATISM
(90%); FOREIGN LABOR (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); REAL ESTATE

 (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT

 (78%); POLITICS (78%); CHILDREN (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC
MIGRATION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); PENSION &
RETIREMENT PLANS (75%); BUDGET CUTS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); NATIONAL DEBT
(71%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); EARLY RETIREMENT (68%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY
(67%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (66%); TRENDS (66%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (66%);
UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (65%); SMALL BUSINESS (65%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (62%);

 CONSTRUCTION (60%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (60%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (51%);

PERSON: HELMUT MICHAEL KOHL  (96%); HELMUT KOHL (96%); HELMUT HEINRICH WALDEMAR
SCHMIDT  (56%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              46 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 10, 1982, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

THE NATION IN SUMMARY;
WHat He Really Did in The War

BYLINE: By Carlyle Douglas Caroline Rand Herrom and Michael Wright

SECTION: Section 4; Page 2, Column 2; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 263 words


He lied to American immigration officials 32 years ago to win an entry visa. He
lied about his Nazi sympathies during World War II, about his role in bloody
riots in Bucharest in which hundreds of Christians and Jews died. It was enough
to get Valerian Trifa, a Rumanian Orthodox archbishop in Michigan, deported, the
Justice Department announced last week.

Federal authorities said the 68-year-old archbishop would be the first person
forced out of the United States for concealing war crimes from American
immigration officials. He may not be the last.  Allan A. Ryan Jr. of the Justice
Department said his special investigations office was investigating 210 people
living in the United States who are believed to have been fascists. The
Government has begun prosecuting 25, including a 62-year-old Long Island man,
Karl Linnas, who last week lost a bid in United States Supreme Court to retain
his American citizenship. Mr. Linnas, a native Estonian, was said to have
commanded a Nazi concentration camp in which 12,000 East Europeans, including
2,000 Jews, were executed during World War II.

Archbishop Trifa is the spiritual leader of 35,000 members of the Romanian
Orthodox Episcopate, based in Grass Lake, Mich. He agreed to leave the United
States if Federal authorities dropped charges that he incited anti-Semitic
violence. Explaining the Archbishop's concent to leave, his lawyer said he was
''old and sick'' and wanted to end a ''no-win situation,'' and hoped to go to
Switzerland.

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); ROMANIA (94%); SWITZERLAND (79%); EUROPE (79%);
EASTERN EUROPE (53%);

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (92%);

CITY: LANSING, MI, USA (58%);

COMPANY: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE  (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (84%);
SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES  (56%); SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
(56%);

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE  (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (84%);
SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES  (56%); SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
(56%);

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); ROMANIA (94%); SWITZERLAND (79%); EUROPE (79%);

 EASTERN EUROPE (53%);   MICHIGAN, USA (92%);   LANSING, MI, USA (58%);

SUBJECT: NAZI ERA; HISTORY; WORLD WAR II (1939-45); DEPORTATION  WORLD WAR II
(93%); RELIGION (93%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); IMMIGRATION (90%); CHRISTIANS &
CHRISTIANITY (90%); JEWS & JUDAISM (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); LAW
ENFORCEMENT (90%); WAR CRIMES (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); PASSPORTS & VISAS
(90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); DEPORTATION (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES
(90%); NEWS BRIEFS (79%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); HOLOCAUST (78%); RIOTS
(77%); LAWYERS (73%); SUPREME COURTS (71%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: photo of Trifa

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              47 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 9, 1982, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

U.S. SEEKS TO DEPORT 10 OTHER NAZIS

BYLINE: By FRANCIS X. CLINES, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 10, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 925 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 8


Government prosecutors said today that they were pressing 10 more deportation
proceedings against suspected Nazi war criminals and had enlarged the search for
additional suspects through the first systematic culling of Nazi rosters by
American investigators.

In the last year alone, a half-dozen new suspects have been identified in this
country through the acquisition and matching of a 50,000-name Nazi SS list
against American immigration records, according to Allan A. Ryan Jr., director
of the Justice Department's special investigations office. Similarly, several
more suspects were identified when the Soviet authorities, who are described as
very cooperative, released to American investigators the roster of a Nazi
''killer'' battalion that had been active in Eastern Europe on genocide
missions.

Mr. Ryan said the activities of the special three-year-old office, created to
prosecute criminal facist refugees from World War II, had been strengthened
greatly Thursday with the deportation agreement signed by Valerian Trifa, the
Rumanian Orthodox Archbishop accused of concealing war crimes when he applied
for United States citizenship.  The Archbishop will be the first naturalized
citizen to be thus deported in the 37 years since the war ended.

Seen as Signal to Others

''In practical terms, it's got to have an effect on every other defendant and
attorney watching the Trifa case,'' Mr. Ryan said, hailing the case as evidence
that the Government has become less passive in seeking to deport suspected war
criminals. ''Just the fact that the first deportation order was finally entered
in this area is enough to make them sit up and take notice.''

Archbishop Trifa, who yielded to the deportation agreement after a seven-year
legal fight in which he lost his citizenship, is accused of having been an
active Nazi sympathizer and of inciting a pogrom in which hundreds of Christians
and Jews were killed in Bucharest in 1941.

He has denied the charges while conceding that he made anti-Semitic speeches and
had supported the Iron Guard organization.  Representative William Lehman, a
Florida Democrat active in the pursuit of war criminals, said through his office
today that the archbishop's agreement showed the strength of the case that had
been assembled by the Justice Department agency.

Soviet Witnesses Testify

Since its inception in 1979, the special investigations office has started a
program of cooperation with Soviet authorities who have allowed more than 100
Soviet witnesses to testify and be crossexamined on television tape in
connection with American citizenship and deportation cases. Mr. Ryan said that
this testimony was crucial in most of the nine recent court victories by the
agency in which suspected facist criminals lost their American citizenship.

The agency, which assumed nine cases from other jurisdictions when the
anti-facist effort was centralized, now has 25 cases in the courts. Twelve are
at the first step, revocation of citizenship, Mr.  Ryan said, and the 13 others
are at the final step, deportation, with three of the defendants too infirm or
aged to face further prosecution.

In addition, 550 suspects have been investigated in the last three years, and of
these, 210 cases are still active. ''A few more'' suspects are discovered each
month, Mr. Ryan said, as the agency's experience and international sources grow.

''It's not cloak and dagger stuff,'' Mr. Ryan said. ''It's more sifting through
paper.''

SS Roster Led to Guard

In a routine clerical effort never tried in the past, he said, Conrad Schelling,
a former guard at the Dachau death camp, had been discovered in Chicago through
cross-matching the SS roster, which was acquired in 1981, and postwar
immigration records. He has since lost his citizenship for concealing his past
and Mr. Ryan's agency is seeking his deportation along with five others tracked
this way. In response to a question, Mr. Ryan said that his investigation had
found no evidence to confirm allegations that the Central Intelligence Agency
had helped Nazi war criminals resettle in the United States. He said that
specific individuals named in charges made on television by a former Justice
Department employee had been investigated. ''We've been unable to find any
evidence to prove they were Nazis,'' he said.

Mr. Ryan said the 50-member agency's role had been bolstered by a 1981 Supreme
Court decision upholding the point that immigrants could lose their citizenship
for concealing criminally facist backgrounds.

''Time is what we need most now,'' Mr. Ryan said. ''The people who did these
things are getting old and this work should have been done 30 years ago.''

---

Trifa Calls Himself Victim

DETROIT, Oct. 8 (AP) - Rumanian Orthodox Archbishop Valerian Trifa denied all
the Government charges against him today and called himself a victim.

''I had to acknowledge it to sign the agreement with the Government,'' he said.
''It was part of a way to come to an end to this. I feel victimized by the fact
that things are picked up and enlarged in such a way as to mean completely
different things.''

His attorney, William Swor of Detroit, said his client would like to relocate in
Switzerland.  However, Heinz Wey, consul at the Swiss Embassy in Washington,
said he could not predict whether the archbishop's request would be granted. He
said that ''Switzerland is not very eager to accept'' ex-Nazis.

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); ROMANIA (92%); EUROPE (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (56%);



STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%);

COMPANY: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE  (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (57%);

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE  (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (57%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES  UNITED STATES (94%); ROMANIA (92%); EUROPE (79%);
EASTERN EUROPE (56%);   FLORIDA, USA (79%);

SUBJECT: NAZI ERA; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; CITIZENSHIP  WAR CRIMES (94%);
DEPORTATION (93%); WORLD WAR II (91%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (91%); INVESTIGATIONS

 (90%); IMMIGRATION (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); NATURALIZATION
(90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TESTIMONY (89%); CITIZENSHIP (89%);
WITNESSES (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); RELIGION (89%); DENATURALIZATION (89%);
CROSS EXAMINATIONS (78%); GENOCIDE (78%); REFUGEES (78%); JEWS & JUDAISM (72%);
US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (72%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              48 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                October 8, 1982, Friday, Late City Final Edition

U.S. TO DEPORT ARCHBISHOP ACCUSED AS A NAZI ALLY

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 900 words

DATELINE: DETROIT, Oct. 7


Valerian Trifa, the Rumanian Orthodox archbishop accused of being a Nazi
sympathizer who incited bloody riots during World War II, will be deported from
the United States, the Justice Department said today.

Archbishop Trifa, the spiritual leader of 35,000 members of the Romanian
Orthodox Episcopate, based in Grass Lake, Mich., will be the first person
deported from the United States for concealing war crimes from immigration
officials, according to Neal M. Sher, deputy director of the Office of Special
Investigations in the Justice Department.

Under an agreement with the Federal Government, Archbishop Trifa admitted lying
to immigration authorities to cover up his fascist sympathies when he entered
the United States 32 years ago. He agreed to leave the United States rather than
continue the civil deportation proceeding, which had begun here Monday before
Judge Bellino D'Ambrosio.

The 68-year-old archbishop wanted to avoid ''dragging it on'' in a ''no-win
situation,'' his attorney, William Swor, said. ''He's old and ill.''

Wants to Go to Switzerland

He said the archbishop, who was stripped of his naturalized American citizenship
in September 1980 after a five-year legal battle, wanted to go to Switzerland
and would apply for Swiss travel documents. He must leave the United States
within 60 days after receipt of the documents.

The Government was prepared to show that Archbishop Trifa had been an ardent
supporter of the Nazis and a member of a group called the Iron Guard, and that
he wrote inflammatory newspaper articles and made anti-Jewish speeches, said
Allan A. Ryan Jr., director of the special investigations office.

Federal officials said that a speech by Archbishop Trifa on Jan.  20, 1941,
touched off four days of rioting in Bucharest in which 300 Christians and Jews
were killed.

The charge of inciting riots, and other charges relating to what the Government
said was persecution of enemies of the Nazis, were dropped under Archbishop
Trifa's agreement to be deported.

Archbishop Trifa has repeatedly denied inciting anti-Semitic violence. But he
acknowleged that when he entered the United States he concealed his activities
in the Iron Guard, an anti-Semitic group active before World War II.

Investigations Continuing

''This is the first time in 30 years a person has been ordered deported for
fascist activities, and it won't be the last,'' Mr. Ryan said at a news
conference. He said his office was investigating 210 people living in the United
States who are believed to be fascists.  The Government has begun prosecutions
of 25.

Andrija Artukovic, a cabinet-level officer in the Nazi puppet government of
Croatia, was ordered deported in 1953, but still lives near Los Angeles. Mr.
Ryan explained that Mr. Artukovic was permitted to stay in the United States
because of the possibility that he might be persecuted if he returned to
Yugoslavia.

In 1971, the United States citizenship of Hermine Braunsteiner Ryan of Maspeth,
Queens, was revoked, and in 1973 she was extradited to West Germany, but not
deported. In 1981 she was sentenced to two consecutive life sentences after
being convicted in Bonn of child murder and selecting prisoners for the gas
chamber at the Maidanek concentration camp in Poland in World War II. At least
250,000 Jews are believed to have been killed at the camp.

Admits 3 Charges

When he entered the United States in 1950, Archbishop Trifa said he had been
confined to Nazi concentration camps. In opening arguments Monday, however,
Kathleen Coleman, a lawyer for the Justice Department, said Archbishop Trifa
spent his time after leaving Romania ''much like a tourist in Nazi Germany.'' He
eventually lived in comfortable housing that was separated from concentration
camp barracks, she said.

Archbishop Trifa admitted the truth of three specific accusations: that he was a
member of the Iron Guard, an organization deemed by the United States to be
fascist; that he misrepresented and concealed facts from immigration officials
when he entered the United States, and that he could be classified as an
excludable alien because he had lied to get his entry visa to the United States.


----

'Gratified' by Deportation

Kenneth J. Bialkin, national chairman of the Anti-Defamation League of B'nai
B'rith, said Thursday that he was ''gratified'' at the imminent deportation of
Archbishop Trifa. ''We congratulate the Justice Department and offer A.D.L.'s
continued cooperation in ridding this country of Nazi war criminals,'' he said.

Elizabeth Holtzman, the Brooklyn District Attorney and a former United States
Representative, also said she was ''gratified'' by what she called a
''significant victory'' for the Justice Department.

Miss Holtzman, who was the chairman of the House subcommittee on immigration in
the 1970's when it investigated the Government's handling of reputed Nazis, said
of Archbishop Trifa: ''He is one of those I cited in 1974 when I pointed to the
failure of the United States to take action against alleged war criminals.''

''The fact that Trifa consented to deportation is a testament to the strength of
the Government's case against him,'' she said.

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); ROMANIA (94%); SWITZERLAND (92%); CROATIA (79%);

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (93%);

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (93%);

COMPANY: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE  (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (93%);

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE  (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (93%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES  UNITED STATES (96%); ROMANIA (94%); SWITZERLAND
(92%); CROATIA (79%);   MICHIGAN, USA (93%);   DETROIT, MI, USA (93%);

SUBJECT: NAZI ERA; RELIGION AND CHURCHES; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION;
CITIZENSHIP  RELIGION (97%); DEPORTATION (94%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (92%); WORLD
WAR II (91%); IMMIGRATION (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); LAW
ENFORCEMENT (90%); RIOTS (90%); JEWS & JUDAISM (89%); WAR CRIMES (78%); US
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (78%); DENATURALIZATION (78%);
INVESTIGATIONS (76%); LAWYERS (74%); JUDGES (68%); PRESS CONFERENCES (50%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: Photo of Archbishop Valerian Trifa

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              49 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                October 8, 1982, Friday, Late City Final Edition

MEXICO'S PRESIDENT-ELECT TO MEET WITH REAGAN IN SAN DIEGO TODAY

BYLINE: By ALAN RIDING, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 8, Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 748 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Oct. 7


Mexico's incoming President, Miguel de la Madrid Hurtado, is expected to suggest
new ways for the United States to help alleviate this country's acute economic
crisis when he meets President Reagan in San Diego on Friday.

Although the informal talks are aimed essentially at allowing the two men to
become acquainted, well-placed Mexican sources said Mr. de la Madrid will argue
that the United States can best help Mexico meet its huge debt obligations and
rebuild its economy by providing new trade and credit opportunities.

The Mexican President-elect is also expected to raise numerous other issues,
including pending United States legislation to control illegal immigration,
although the economic problems he will inherit when he takes office Dec. 1 are
reportedly utmost on his mind.

The Reagan Administration has already provided emergency credit to Mexico and
has paid in advance for 40 million barrels of Mexican oil, although further
assistance is apparently conditioned on Mexico's reaching agreement with the
International Monetary Fund on an austerity program. Officials here said that an
agreement with the fund was close to being initialed.

Relations Now Strained

The talks Friday nevertheless come at a difficult moment since relations between
the Reagan Administration and the outgoing Government of President Jose Lopez
Portillo have deteriorated sharply, with officials here convinced that
Washington has tried to extract unfair advantage from this country's economic
difficulties.

Aware of Mexico's current mood of nationalism, aides of Mr. de la Madrid said
that in his talks with President Reagan he will also stress that the broad lines
of Mexico's foreign policy, including its independent approach to Central
America, will not change. ''There is a tradition of continuity to Mexican
foreign policy,'' a key official said, ''and it will be little different this
time round.''

But the aides insisted that Mr. de la Madrid, who speaks English and studied at
Harvard University, is eager to establish a good working relationship with the
United States during his six-year term so that problems between the two
countries can be dealt with without friction or emotion.

Referring to policy differences over Central America, Mr. de la Madrid said in a
televised interview last week that it was natural for two democracies to have
some disagreements, but he added that it should be a matter of pride for the
United States that a weaker neighbor ''should have the dignity to dissent on
occasions from some of the policies of the American Government.''

The program for Friday has been carefully worked out to avoid the impression
that Mr. de la Madrid is going cap in hand, with local officials pointing out
that incoming Presidents in both countries traditionally meet the President next
door before taking office.

Reagan to Cross Border

Officials here are also anxious to underline the fact that President Reagan will
first meet Mr. de la Madrid in Tijuana, where he will lay a wreath at a statue
of Benito Juarez, the leader of Mexico's 19th-century liberal reforms. This
visit to Mexico, although for only 45 minutes, will enable Mr. de la Madrid to
travel to Washington early next year without disturbing the tradition of
alternating visits by Mexican and United States Presidents. Mr.  Reagan traveled
to the Mexican border town of Ciudad Juarez for talks with President Jose Lopez
Portillo 10 days before his inauguration last year.

After meeting in Tijuana, Mr. Reagan and Mr. de la Madrid will drive together to
the Hotel El Coronado in San Diego for private talks and lunch, which will be
followed by a brief press statement.

No concrete agreements are expected to be announced, although aides to Mr. de la
Madrid are hoping for a promise that a top-level American delegation, headed
perhaps by Vice President Bush, will attend his inauguration.

Mr. Reagan will be accompanied by Secretary of State George P.  Schultz, the
national security assistant, William Clark, and other top White House officials.
Mr. de la Madrid's delegation will include several aides expected to play an
important role in his administration, including Mexico's current Ambassador to
Washington, Bernardo Sepulveda Amor.

COUNTRY: MEXICO (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); CENTRAL AMERICA (92%);

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%);

CITY: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (93%);

COMPANY: HARVARD UNIVERSITY PRESS (53%);   INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND  (55%);
INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%);

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND  (55%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND
(55%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MEXICO  MEXICO (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); CENTRAL AMERICA (92%);
   CALIFORNIA, USA (94%);   MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (93%);

SUBJECT: UNITED STATE INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS;
TRAVEL, PERSONAL  US PRESIDENTS (92%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (91%); TALKS & MEETINGS
(90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INTERVIEWS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%);
ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); IMMIGRATION (74%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (69%); FOREIGN POLICY

 (69%); TRENDS (63%);

PERSON: REAGAN, RONALD WILSON (PRES)  RONALD REAGAN (99%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              50 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                October 8, 1982, Friday, Late City Final Edition

PRESIDENT TO SIGN IMMIGRATION BILL

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 15, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 837 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 7


President Reagan is expected soon to approve a bill making it possible for
thousands of Asian-born children of American servicemen to immigrate to the
United States.

The House and Senate passed the bill last Friday, just hours before they
adjourned.  Eleven Vietnamese-American children arrived in the United States
this week, but they differ from the intended beneficiaries of the bill passed by
Congress. The 11 children, who range in age from 7 to 15 years, have been openly
acknowledged by their American fathers. By contrast, the bill is meant to assist
children abandoned by, or unknown to, their American fathers.

Supporters of the bill said the United States was facing up to its moral
responsibility in helping the children come to ''the land of their fathers.''

Target of Cultural Biases

Senator Mark O. Hatfield, Republican of Oregon, said that ''these children,
though blameless in the eyes of God, have been forced to bear alone the brunt of
anti-American sentiment and cultural biases'' that stigmatize illegitimate or
mixed-race children.

Representative Stewart B. McKinney, a Connecticut Republican who led a four-year
effort to gain approval of the legislation, said, ''These children come from
nations committed to racial purity, and so they were regarded as nonpeople.''

The Reagan Administration, after some initial hesitation, supported the bill and
recommended several minor amendments that were adopted by Congress.
Administration officials said today that Mr. Reagan intended to sign the
measure.

The bill had 273 co-sponsors in the House. The chief sponsors of the legislation
in the Senate were Jeremiah Denton, Republican of Alabama, and Carl Levin,
Democrat of Michigan.

Guarantee of Financial Support

Under the bill, a child is eligible to immigrate to the United States if he was
fathered by an American citizen and was born in Korea, Vietnam, Laos, Cambodia
or Thailand after 1950. He must also have a guarantee of financial support from
an American family or a private charitable agency for at least five years. The
family must have an income equal to at least 125 percent of the official poverty
standard, which for a family of four is about $9,300 a year. Federal officials
expect that the younger children will be formally adopted by American families.

While paternity is often difficult to establish, the bill lists several types of
evidence that the Attorney General may consider. The evidence includes ''the
physical appearance of the alien,'' birth and baptismal certificates, local
government records and photographs of the ''putative father,'' as well as proof
of financial support from the father.

There is no official estimate of the number of Amerasian children.  Mr. McKinney
said that 60,000 to 100,000 Amerasians might be eligible to immigrate under the
bill, but added that there was no way of knowing how many would come to the
United States.

Representative Douglas K. Bereuter, Republican of Nebraska, said the bill would
not increase the number of people entering the United States each year as
immigrants, would not increase the welfare caseload and would not cost taxpayers
anything.

Preferential Treatment

Under the immigration law, aliens who are children of American citizens are
eligible for preferential treatment when they try to immigrate to the United
States. However, an Amerasian youngster is not recognized as the child of an
American citizen unless the father acknowledges him. Under the bill, the Asian
youngsters would be eligible for the same preferential treatment as other
children of American citizens.

Visas are distributed under a system of six preferences. The Amerasian children
could receive visas under the first preference, for unmarried sons and daughters
of United States citizens, or the fourth preference, for married sons and
daughters of citizens.

The bill, according to Senator Denton, does not require that the fathers be
''specifically or individually identified.'' Federal officials said the
Government would make no attempt to track down the fathers.

Under the bill, an alien seeking entry to the United States must file a petition
with the Attorney General. In most cases, according to Congressional aides,
private charitable organizations will file the petitions on behalf of the
aliens.

Despite widespread support for the bill, it faced many difficulties. The
provision for Amerasians was originally part of a much larger immigration bill
sponsored by Senator Alan K. Simpson, Republican of Wyoming, and Representative
Romano L. Mazzoli, Democrat of Kentucky. They agreed to have it considered
separately when it became clear that Congress could not complete action on their
bill before adjourning last week.

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC (79%); VIET NAM
(79%); THAILAND (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%);

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES  UNITED STATES (99%); LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC
REPUBLIC (79%); VIET NAM (79%); THAILAND (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%);
CONNECTICUT, USA (79%);

SUBJECT: LAW AND LEGISLATION; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION  LEGISLATION (97%);
IMMIGRATION (92%); US PRESIDENTS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN
PARTY (90%); APPROVALS (90%); FAMILY (89%); CHILDREN (89%); PREGNANCY &
CHILDBIRTH (78%); ASIAN AMERICANS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); REGIONAL &
LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); LEGAL PATERNITY (75%); CHARITIES (73%); JUSTICE
DEPARTMENTS (64%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (61%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (50%);

PERSON: REAGAN, RONALD WILSON (PRES)  RONALD REAGAN (95%); CARL LEVIN (53%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              51 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 7, 1982, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

'WE SIMPLY CANNOT REMAIN A NATION WITHOUT BORDERS'

SECTION: Section A; Page 26, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 522 words


To the Editor:

The much-heralded yet widely misunderstood Simpson-Mazzoli Immigration Reform
bill (H.R. 6514, S. 2222) has been endorsed by many as the answer to our
immigration problems. They should know that the House Judiciary Committee, on
which I serve, has gutted the measure and made it one which will only worsen
those problems.

As amended by the committee, the bill has three basic weaknesses:

* It leaves intact the system of ''preferences'' for admitting relatives of
immigrants already here legally, leaving the door open for serious abuses (such
as the petition of one immigrant who sought entry for 69 relatives).

* The bill's sanctions against employers who knowingly hire illegal aliens have
been weakened to the point where the U.S. will continue to be an economic
magnet. The combination of the aliens' desire for jobs and the willingness of
some employers to obtain cheap, often sub-minimum-wage or even ''hidden'' labor
has resulted in thousands of cases of border jumping. Still, employers will have
a terribly large new paperwork burden thrust upon them.

* The bill legalizes the presence of all those who have already entered the
country illegally by granting them amnesty. This merely encourages more aliens
to cross our borders in the hope of beating the deadline for amnesty, while
discouraging those wading patiently through our immigration red tape.

Furthermore, the committee adopted, then rejected, and then adopted again a
limited provision of Federal reimbursement of state and local welfare and social
service costs which could be generated by many of those granted amnesty, so
state and local taxpayers would probably have to foot a substantial part of the
bill for the amnesty.

Frankly, I never was convinced that the measure would correct the immigration
law's weaknesses, which open our borders to an excessive number of legal and
illegal immigrants. The estimate of illegal aliens in the U.S. is already as
high as 12 million, on top of which we have accepted as many as 800,000
immigrants, refugees and other entrants a year, more than all other countries
combined.

These great numbers produce several serious problems, including the displacement
of Americans from their jobs and increases in the taxpayer burden of providing
social services.

I would hope the U.S. could continue as much as possible its ''open door''
tradition toward the displaced, the persecuted and the ambitious of the world.
However, the reality of our economic and resource situation is that we simply
cannot remain a nation without borders. We must limit the influx of aliens and
have an orderly and fair system for admitting those we are able to absorb.

The Simpson-Mazzoli measure, as reported by the House Judiciary Committee,
provides neither, so it cannot be regarded either as a true reform of our
messed-up immigration laws or as the first step toward restoring order to our
immigration system.

If it cannot be amended on the floor of the House to remedy these deficiencies,
it should be defeated.
F. JAMES SENSENBRENNER JR., Member of Congress, 9th Dist., Wis., Washington,
Sept. 28, 1982

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES  UNITED STATES (94%);

SUBJECT: LAW AND LEGISLATION; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION  IMMIGRATION (94%);
LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); AMNESTY (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW
(90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (89%); REFUGEES (78%); FOREIGN LABOR (78%); EDITORIALS
& OPINIONS (74%); SMUGGLING (74%); MINIMUM WAGE (69%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              52 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 5, 1982, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

L.I. MAN FAILS IN A COURT BID ON NAZI LINK

BYLINE: By JOHN T. McQUISTON

SECTION: Section B; Page 7, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 401 words


A 62-year-old Long Island man who was said to have commanded a Nazi
concentration camp, in which 12,000 East Europeans, including 2,000 Jews, were
executed during World War II, lost his bid in United States Supreme Court
yesterday to retain his American citizenship.

The Justices let stand a ruling by Judge Jacob Mishler of Federal District Court
in Westbury, L.I., that denaturalized the man, Karl Linnas, a native Estonian
who lives in Greenlawn, L.I.

The next step toward deporting Mr. Linnas will be taken by the Justice
Department, according to Neal M. Sher, deputy director of the department's
special investigations unit, which was created three years ago to pursue the
prosecution of Nazi war criminals.

Deportation Proceedings

''We have already instituted deportation proceedings against him in New York,''
said Mr. Sher. ''Our next step is to get an Immigration Department judge to set
a date for his deportation.''

Judge Mishler found at the end of a nonjury trial in July 1981 that Mr. Linnas,
an engineering draftsman, had hidden his World War II role in Estonia as a
concentration camp official and his participation in the execution of prisoners.

The charges against Mr. Linnas were brought by the United States Government,
which accused him of lying to immigration authorities in 1951, when he entered
the United States as a displaced person from Germany, and again when he became
an American citizen in 1960.

Estonian Trial in Absentia

Federal attorneys said that Mr. Linnas had been an officer in an Estonian
partisan group that collaborated with the German Army and conducted executions
of Jews and Communists at the prison in Tartu, Estonia, in 1941. Mr. Linnas was
tried in absentia in 1962 in Estonia, which is now part of the Soviet Union, and
was sentenced to death.

The charges were denied by Mr. Linnas through his attorney, Ivars Berzins, who
attempted to prove that any testimony or documents provided by the Soviet Union
in the case were not trustworthy.

Mr. Linnas did not appear in court during the proceedings against him. Mr.
Berzins declined to talk with reporters and said he had advised Mr. Linnas not
to comment on the case.

Mr. Linnas's home telephone number in Greenlawn is unlisted at his request. No
one answered the door yesterday at his home.

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (94%); ESTONIA (93%); GERMANY (91%);

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%);

COMPANY: SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES  (84%); SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED
STATES (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE  (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (57%);

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES  (84%); SUPREME COURT OF THE
UNITED STATES (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE  (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
(57%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;LONG ISLAND (NY); UNITED STATES  UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (94%);

 ESTONIA (93%); GERMANY (91%);   NEW YORK, USA (79%);

SUBJECT: DECISIONS AND VERDICTS; NAZI ERA; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION;
CITIZENSHIP  WORLD WAR II (92%); IMMIGRATION (90%); HOLOCAUST (90%); CITIZENSHIP

 (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%);
DEPORTATION (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); LITIGATION (89%); CAPITAL
PUNISHMENT (89%); TESTIMONY (77%); SENTENCING (77%); VERDICTS (77%); LAWYERS
(77%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (77%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (77%); JUDGES (77%);
WAR CRIMES (77%); DENATURALIZATION (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (75%); LAW
ENFORCEMENT (75%); DISPLACED PERSONS (73%); PRISONS (71%); INTERNATIONAL
RELATIONS (70%); INVESTIGATIONS (69%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              53 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                October 4, 1982, Monday, Late City Final Edition

11 CHILDREN FROM VIETNAM LAND ON THE COAST

BYLINE: By JUDITH CUMMINGS, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 15, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 661 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Oct. 3


Eleven Vietnamese-American children who left Vietnam last week to rejoin their
American fathers arrived in the United States today.

They were met at Los Angeles International Airport and assisted through
immigration processing by American relief agency volunteers, who helped prepare
them for the final leg of their journey to new homes in American towns and
cities.

The children, aged 7 to 15, are the largest group of children of American
parentage from the Vietnam War years to leave that country since the war ended
in 1975. Officials of private relief agencies expressed the hope that the exodus
would continue and grow.

Fright Mixes With Joy

The arrival was marked by confusion and fright as well as relief and joy.  The
children emerged from immigration processing to meet a crowd of press and
television people. One little boy in front, apparently confused by the sight of
so many Caucasian men, cried out, ''Daddy, Daddy,'' although his father was not
on hand.

Most of the American parents of the children chose not to come to Los Angeles,
and were waiting at airports in their hometowns. The exception was Gary D.
Tanous of Camas, Wash., who flew to Ho Chi Minh City, formerly Saigon, to meet
his 15-year-old daughter, Jean Marie.

None of the children can speak English yet. Mr. Tanous said his daughter was
exhausted ''but exuberant about this whole thing.'' ''We weren't able to discuss
anything at all on the plane because there's a language barrier,'' he said. ''I
told her through an interpreter that I loved her and she said she loved me -
that and small talk.''

Left Loved Ones Behind

Nguyen Quoc Viet, 11 years old, bound for Sacramento, came out of the airplane
with tears in his eyes. Gary Larsen, who had traveled with the children as a
volunteer with Operation California, a relief agency, explained that the boy had
been weeping over leaving behind an aunt who had cared for him.

''In spite of the fact their existence in Saigon is very tough, they're still
leaving people who have been thir only emotional support for seven years,'' Mr.
Larsen said.

The children are being resettled in America under the Orderly Departure program.
The program, after several years of actively resettling children of French,
Australian and other nations' soldiers who were in Vietnam, has begun to make
progress in getting some Vietnamese-American children out, said Richard Walden,
executive director of Operation California, one of six volunteer agencies at the
airport.

20,000 Children Affected

Relief officials estimate that there were 20,000 children of American fathers in
Vietnam and that they suffered discrimination there because of their racial
heritage. Relief officials say the American Government has been reluctant to
accept them, asserting that there was inadquate proof to indicate that the
children were fathered by Americans and not other nationalities.

The few mixed-race offspring who have been released to date represent a small
minority whose parents have claimed paternity and who have sufficient
documentation to prove it to the satisfaction of the United States Government.
The Rev. Larry Hixon, an official of Church World Services, the relief arm of
the National Council of Churches, said he regarded the transfer of the children
as a bid by the Government of Vietnam to ''normalize relations between the two
Governments.''

''Vietnam has been more willing to talk than the U.S.,'' he said.  Last Friday,
as one result of the expanding effort to repatriate the children, Congress
passed a measure that would give the children of Americans first preference
among those seeking to immigrate from Vietnam.

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); VIET NAM (93%); VIETNAM (93%);

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%);

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); HO CHI MINH CITY, VIETNAM (93%); SACRAMENTO,
CA, USA (79%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;VIETNAM; UNITED STATES  UNITED STATES (99%); VIET NAM (93%);
VIETNAM (93%);   CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%);   LOS ANGELES,
CA, USA (94%); HO CHI MINH CITY, VIETNAM (93%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%);

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; VIETNAM WAR; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND
DEFENSE; CHILDREN AND YOUTH  IMMIGRATION (91%); CHILDREN (90%); AIRPORTS (90%);
VIETNAM WAR (90%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); LANGUAGE &
LANGUAGES (73%); CITIES (71%); CITY LIFE (71%); MILITARY WEAPONS (63%);
DISCRIMINATION (60%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              54 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 2, 1982, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

SIMPSON-MAZZOLI IMMIGRATION BILL: BACK TO THE BRACERO FIASCO?

SECTION: Section 1; Page 26, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 618 words


To the Editor:

Despite the claims of supporters (including The Times) of the Simpson-Mazzoli
immigration bill, there is one overriding and simple reason why the bill should
not be passed when the House takes it up later this session: It will not
accomplish its major purpose of curbing immigration.

he fever to pass the bill has been whipped up amid nationwide fears of vast
alien hordes sweeping relentlessly across our borders.  We don't know whether
this problem actually exists (the real numbers of undocumented workers coming
into the country has not been determined), but we do know that Simpson-Mazzoli
promises a cure it can't deliver. The version of the bill passed by the Senate
will actually let in more immigrant workers under an expanded and more lenient
H-2 program.

The current H-2 program allows growers in the Northeast and South to bring small
numbers of temporary workers into the country to harvest crops, under very
restricted circumstances and with a long and complex application process. The
Simpson-Mazzoli bill greatly simplifies the process and expands the program to
give employers all over the country wide access to H-2 workers.

Congress has talked about allowing 175,000 to a million workers into the U.S.
under H-2. The experience in this country with the bracero program of the 40's,
50's and 60's, and that of European countries with guest-worker programs,
suggest that a great many of these H-2 workers will stay on after their
temporary status expires, even without documentation.

Since most choose temporary worker situations because they cannot find any work
or work that pays as well at home, they are predictably unwilling to give up the
better life. Barring a change in the economic situation back home, their
newfound prosperity is a much stronger carrot than enforcement measures are a
stick.

The Simpson-Mazzoli H-2 program is really just a replay of the bracero program,
sure to mirror that program in another respect as well: It is certain to repeat
the abuses that marred the bracero program and eventually led to its
discontinuation in 1964. Workers lived in unsanitary hovels, worked for low pay,
faced numberless abuses in the work place and had no alternative to accepting
their situation without question. Braceros, in effect, had no rights.

The abuses of the bracero program were viewed universally as a national
disgrace, and Simpson-Mazzoli supporters assure us that those abuses will not be
repeated. Yet there is no real, effective defense against them in any system
that creates a sub-class of people.

The bracero experience leads back to the first point.  Simpson-Mazzoli will not
work because it will foster immigration.  Despite the shocking abuses of the
bracero program, large numbers of braceros opted to stay in this country. So
will H-2 workers, because the promise of a better life is as attractive to them,
as it has been to generations of immigrants.

Real, positive immigration reform is both necessary and possible.
Simpson-Mazzoli is merely a rehash of old thinking that will create far more
problems than it solves. It should be defeated.  JOAQUIN G. AVILA President and
General Counsel Mexican American Legal Defense and Educational Fund San
Francisco, Sept. 27, 1982

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES  UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%);

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION  IMMIGRATION (92%);
FARM LABOR (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); FOREIGN LABOR
(90%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (89%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES
(75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: letter

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              55 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              September 27, 1982, Monday, Late City Final Edition

A SURGE OF IMMIGRANTS ALTERS NEW YORK'S FACE;
A New Melting Pot: The City in the 80's First article of a series appearing
periodically

BYLINE: By DENA KLEIMAN

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1669 words


More so today than at any time since the early part of this century, when
boatloads of Irish, Italians and Eastern Europeans spilled onto the city's
shores, New York is a city of immigrants. Beginning 17 years ago with a
loosening in the Federal immigration law, the latest surge of foreigners from
virtually every nation has reached dimensions not seen since the last great wave
of immigration ended in the 1920's as the heyday of Ellis Island came to a
close, Federal immigration records show. More than a million immigrants now live
in New York City. According to the Immigration and Naturalization Service, there
are more than 650,000 legal immigrants here, and the city estimates that there
are 750,000 illegal aliens as well.

The heaviest influxes are from Central and South America, the Caribbean, Italy,
the Soviet Union, India, China and Korea, a complex mix that includes wealthy
newcomers whose high visibility around the city often obscures the traditional
immigrant force - those who come here with only a dream and a willingness to
struggle.

This new surge is altering the city's ethnic texture, revitalizing many of its
neighborhoods and reaffirming something about the city that many may have
thought long lost - that despite the fiscal crisis, crime statistics and other
drawbacks, the rags-to-riches promise of New York that attracted generations of
immigrants is still very much alive.

''The word has leaked out,'' said Frank Vardy, who analyzes immigration for the
city's Planning Commission. ''You can make a living in this city, and you might
even make it big.''

All over New York, immigrants are making their mark. And nowhere is this
presence more apparent than in the new ethnic outposts that have sprouted in
recent years, taking over where Little Italy, Chinatown, the Lower East Side and
other immigrant nurturing grounds of the past left off.

Of these, perhaps none is more an epitome of the whole city's new ethnic
landscape than Elmhurst, Queens. It is the city's most ethnically diverse
neighborhood, a true melting pot where 20,000 immigrants from more than 110
countries live in the shadow of the elevated No. 7 Flushing subway line, and
where every day a trip to the cleaners, a stop at the post office or a wait for
the bus becomes an important step in that complicated osmosis involved in
becoming an American.

Elmhurst is the kind of place where the local grocer is Korean, the butcher
comes from Argentina and the baker is Colombian - where it is harder to find a
decent hamburger than Pakistani lemon pickle. There are blocks where the fashion
is saris, and others where it is mandarin collars, and still others with
garments that look plucked from the streets of Guatemala.

Ethnic surprises abound in this community of modest row houses and low-rise
apartment buildings that has been transformed over the past decade from an
Archie Bunker-style working class haven to an international metropolis in
miniature. Indian, Greek, Korean, Thai, Chinese, Argentine, Colombian, Italian,
Ecuadorean restaurants dot the commercial terrain. An Indian ashram sits across
from the local high school. The Dutch Reformed Church now conducts services in
Taiwanese.

Unlike many other sectors of the city where people have flocked in distinct
ethnic groups, Elmhurst is a place where Bengalis live alongside Ecuadoreans -
where lending a cup of sugar becomes as much an exercise in double translation
as in neighborliness.

Elmhurst has an Italian-style pizzeria operated by a newcomer from Greece who is
unable to talk to his customers because most are from India. The most faithful
patrons at the local doughnut shop are Chinese, although most have yet to master
the word for cruller.

It is a place, in fact, where the pale-skinned look out of place and unaccented
English sounds odd.

In Search of English

''I came to New York so that I could learn English,'' said Jumoke Rhodes, a
Nigerian whose native language is Yoruba and who complains that neither she nor
her two children can find anyone in Elmhurst to speak English with. ''Here is an
English-speaking country. What I got in my life is something else. I don't know
where I am. Spain?  China?''

In many ways, Elmhurst furnishes an overview of today's immigrant experience -
reflecting many of the contributions and burdens this foreign population has
brought to the city as a whole.

There are 34 different languages spoken by pupils in the local public school,
P.S. 89. Citywide, the Board of Education has hired 2,500 teachers at a yearly
cost of $27 million to work with youngsters unable to speak English.

Elmhurst General Hospital employs its own interpreters, and deals daily with
such situations as having an Indian man refuse an emergency gynecological
examination for his wife because the only doctors on call are men.

There are sweatshops in Elmhurst where workers are paid by the piece - and below
the minimum wage. There are places, too, where forged Social Security cards are
reported to go for $180.

''The city is changing, there's no question about that,'' said Charles B. Keely,
a senior associate at the Population Council, which studies international
population movement and trends. ''Not since the turn of the century have there
been so many foreigners here, and they are as diverse a group as ever.''

''It's amazing,'' said Detective Jerry Campbell of the 110th Precinct, which
includes Elmhurst. ''Anything God put on this earth, we've got at least two of
them here in this precinct.''

Attraction Is Not Apparent

No one quite knows why so many different foreigners flock to Elmhurst, which is
about an 18-minute subway ride from Times Square.  Housing is cheaper than it is
in Manhattan, but no more so than in many other neighborhoods. There is nothing
about the community's layout or services that would naturally attract the
foreign born.  Still, immigrants arrive every day - having been given the green
light by relatives and friends or by friends of friends -often oblivious to how
international a center it really is.

''Please, change, quarters,'' Lev Mines said in uncertain English the other day,
handing over a dollar bill to a woman in a coffee shop in Elmhurst.

''Not enough,'' Maria Fernanda replied with equal linguistic difficulty,
attempting to explain she only had dimes.

There the two of them were. He, who moved to this country two years ago from
Leningrad, and she, who arrived here two years ago from Colombia, reaching out
to one another in a foreign tongue, ultimately arriving at some understanding,
with neither of them quite aware how.

A Shared Deficiency

''No English, no English,'' Mr. Mines exclaimed, as if to apologize to the rest
of the customers in the shop. Unbeknown to him, the shop caters primarily to
Colombians, and few of the customers spoke English either.

Elmhurst - named years ago for its abundance of elm trees - sits in the heart of
Queens, adjoining such other increasings oolong.

Economic Contrasts

Few foreigners find life easy here in Elmhurst. It is a place where families are
often crowded five to a room and work as many as 14 hours a day, seven days a
week. Many in this community hold two or three jobs.

It is a place of extremes: A Yugoslavian handyman and his wife, who cleans
office buildings at night in Manhattan, saved up $90,000 to buy a new home, but
a young Colombian busboy who came to this country last year to seek his fortune
paces the floor at night, torn between subsisting here or swallowing his pride
and going home.

In Elmhurst lives Isabel Aguirre from Argentina, who operates the shish kebob
stand on Vanderbilt Avenue at 43d Street, across from Grand Central Station, and
Nu Trieu Pheu, who escaped by boat from Vietnam. It is home for 25-year-old
Cesar Sierra, an immigrant from Colombia now studying to become a doctor, and
28-year-old Cheng-I Chang, who hopes someday to open his own Chinese restaurant.
And it is now home for Yvonne Chang, a 3-year-old immigrant from Taiwan, who has
been here three months and is already listening to records about the life of
Curious George.

Sophie Chapman was on a float in a Hispanic Day parade when she met the man she
hopes to marry. Tina Wong decided to marry Jimmy, and did, after bumping into
him on a street corner in Brooklyn after not having seen him for years since
their school days in Hong Kong.

An Immigrant Romance

As for Sarita Ocampo, romance was a bit more involved.  Mrs. Ocampo, who now
works in Elmhurst, first came to the United States from Colombia as a maid. She
had never been a maid before, and disliked the job from the start. She
continued, however, because - given her inability to speak the language - there
was nothing else for her to do.

One day Mrs. Ocampo went looking for an apartment and consulted a real estate
agent. This particular agent had more than simply real estate to offer. He asked
whether Mrs. Ocampo was interested in making some extra money. She said she was.
He opened his wallet, and took out a photograph of his brother.

He said his brother, who had no legal way to remain in this country, would pay
her $800 if she would agree to marry him. Mrs.  Ocampo recalls that she was
intrigued by the photograph. She agreed to the deal, and a week later was
married. That, she says, was 10 years ago. They are still married. They are
still in love. He has never paid her the $800.

These days, the Ocampos, who have recently bought a home on Long Island, are
both in the real estate business. They are looking for a maid.

TICKER: APAGF (NASDAQ) (51%);

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (92%); ARGENTINA (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS
(79%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); COLOMBIA (79%); SOUTH
AMERICA (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (53%);

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%);

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%);

COMPANY: APCO ARGENTINA INC (51%);   IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE
(57%); IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE (57%);

ORGANIZATION: IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE  (57%); IMMIGRATION &
NATURALIZATION SERVICE (57%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES  UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (92%);
ARGENTINA (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (79%); NORTHERN
ASIA (79%); COLOMBIA (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (53%);
   NEW YORK, USA (95%);   NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%);

SUBJECT: SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; FOREIGN
POPULATION AND FOREIGN DESCENT GROUPS; POPULATION  IMMIGRATION (96%);
IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); CITY LIFE (78%); TRENDS (75%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%);
ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (72%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (60%); CRIME STATISTICS (51%);



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: Photo of Dutch Reformed Church in Queens map of New York
City (page B4) Photos of immigrant population (page B4)

TYPE: Series

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              56 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

             September 25, 1982, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

POLES WHO TOOK VESSEL TO JERSEY GRANTED ASYLUM

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1; Page 29, Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 539 words

DATELINE: NEWARK, Sept. 24


Four members of the Polish labor union Solidarity who sailed into Port
Elizabeth, N.J., in the dark last week were granted political asylum today, and
freed from a detention center to find homes and jobs in the United States.

Tired after their five-month journey in a 38-foot schooner and their six-day
stay in a detention center in Brooklyn, the four men walked out of the Federal
building here shortly before 5 P.M.

''We are all very happy,'' one of the men, Jarek Neczaj-Hruzewicz, said. ''We
didn't think it would be so fast.'' Political asylum was granted by the United
States Department of State at 4 P.M., just hours after Nathan Gordon, an
immigration judge, had ordered a new hearing that would have allowed the
Immigration and Naturalization Service to release the men on bail until
deportation hearings.

The hearings ordered by Judge Gordon were canceled when the State Department
allowed the men to remain in the United States as political refugees.

Concern About Publicity

Their attorney, William McAlvanah, said the men could apply for permanent
residency in a year.  Mr. Neczaj-Hruzewicz, a former chemistry professor at the
University of Lublin and the only one of the four who can speak English, said
the men were concerned about the publicity their case has attracted.

''I have a wife and children in Poland,'' Mr. Neczaj-Hruzewicz said. ''We all
do. That's why we are so worried.'' Two of the other men, Andrzej Bienkowski and
Stanley Kozak, also are from Lublin. The fourth, Andrzej Plewik, is from
Pulaway.  Poland had permitted the men to fly to Athens, where the boat was
moored, for a vacation sail back to Poland, Mr. Neczaj-Hruzewicz said last week.

Instead, he said, the crew had sailed through the Mediterranean Sea and across
the Atlantic to the United States, landing in Africa, France, Spain and Bermuda
on the way.

Coast Guard Avoided

The four men sailed into Port Elizabeth on Sept. 16, avoiding Coast Guard
vessels while they searched for a marina. Once they docked, the men found a bar
where some people spoke Polish and set out to find their friends.

Mr. McAlvanah said the four men had intended to ask their friends for help in
getting visas to stay in the United States, but immigration officials learned of
their arrival and the men were taken into Federal custody.

Membership in Solidarity was one of the reasons, ''among other things,'' that
prompted their flight, Mr. Neczaj-Hruzewicz said today.

The other issues ''touch on political reasons,'' he added, and refused to
elaborate.  The four left the courthouse for Elizabeth to stay with friends
while they search for jobs and homes.  ''We must find some way to support our
families,'' Mr.  Neczaj-Hruzewicz said.  Hearings on whether they should be
allowed to enter the United States had opened Tuesday.

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); POLAND (91%); AFRICA (79%); MEDITERRANEAN (79%);
SPAIN (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); FRANCE (52%);

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%); MEDITERRANEAN SEA (79%);

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (90%);

COMPANY: US DEPARTMENT OF STATE  (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF STATE (83%);

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF STATE  (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF STATE (83%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; POLAND  UNITED STATES (95%); POLAND (91%); AFRICA
(79%); MEDITERRANEAN (79%); SPAIN (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); FRANCE (52%);
NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%); MEDITERRANEAN SEA (79%);   NEWARK,
NJ, USA (90%);

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; REFUGEES AND EXPATRIATES  POLITICAL ASYLUM
(94%); IMMIGRATION (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%);
LABOR UNIONS (90%); MARINE VESSELS (78%); REFUGEES (78%); FAMILY (77%);
DEPORTATION (77%); JUDGES (73%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (72%);

 LAWYERS (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (51%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              57 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              September 24, 1982, Friday, Late City Final Edition

AROUND THE NATION;
10 Indicted for Importing Indonesians for Servitude

BYLINE: UPI

SECTION: Section A; Page 16, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 172 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Sept. 23


Ten people, eight of them members of one family, were indicted today by a
Federal grand jury on charges of bringing 50 Indonesians into the United States
illegally and selling them to wealthy residents as servants.

Two defendants were arrested today, and the others are expected to surrender to
the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Immigration and Naturalization
Service for arraignment Oct. 4.

Assistant Attorney General William Bradford Reynolds, head of the Civil Rights
Division of the Justice Department, said in a statement the indictment had
resulted from a 16-month international investigation by the F.B.I., the
immigration agency and the office of United States Attorney Stephen Trott in Los
Angeles.

Each of the defendants was charged with conspiracy. Some face additional counts
of enticement into slavery; holding in involuntary servitude; holding in
peonage; fraud and misuse of visa, and bringing illegal aliens into the United
States.

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); INDONESIA (94%);

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%);

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%);

COMPANY: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION  (84%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

 (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE CIVIL RIGHTS DIVISION (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF
JUSTICE  (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (57%);

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION  (84%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF
INVESTIGATION (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE CIVIL RIGHTS DIVISION (57%); US
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE  (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (57%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; LOS ANGELES (CALIF); INDONESIA, REPUBLIC OF  UNITED
STATES (96%); INDONESIA (94%);   CALIFORNIA, USA (94%);   LOS ANGELES, CA, USA
(94%);

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; ILLEGAL ALIENS  GRAND
JURY (92%); IMMIGRATION (91%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%);
LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); INDICTMENTS (90%); SPECIAL
INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); CONSPIRACY (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%);
ATTORNEYS GENERAL (87%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (87%); SLAVERY (87%); CIVIL RIGHTS
(86%); ARRESTS (72%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              58 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              September 24, 1982, Friday, Late City Final Edition

Showing ID at the Golden Doors

SECTION: Section A; Page 26, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 591 words


There are, in truth, two golden doors to the United States. Anyone who wants to
keep the front door open to legal immigration, despite the rising nativist and
racist pressures, should like the Simpson-Mazzoli immigration reform bill. So
should anyone who wants to close the back door against illegal immigration.
That's why the bill, having overwhelmingly passed the Senate, has finally run
the gantlet of the House Judiciary Committee. If the House leadership recognizes
how broad a consensus the bill represents, it could come before the whole House
next week.

But consensus notwithstanding, critics right and left are rushing to launch
torpedoes, notably because they are offended by the bill's key provision:
employer sanctions. That is, employers could no longer innocently hire illegal
aliens. They would have to check the identification of prospective workers, thus
discouraging the illegal flow. To the critics, identification is a dirty word;
they insist that as a cure, it is worse than the disease.

The argument may have appeal to libertarians on the right and to civil
libertarians on the left, but it remains romantic. The Simpson-Mazzoli bill
offers the opportunity of a generation and ought not to be obstructed by such
yearnings for a simpler past.  Identification is a fact of modern American life.
The test is how to use it wisely.

The American Civil Liberties Union opposes use of Social Security or other
Government cards to identify legal immigrants applying for work: that would, in
effect, create an ''employment passport.'' The libertarian right expresses
similar horror. Our colleague, William Safire, writes of ''this generation's
longest step toward totalitarianism.'' What's all the shouting about? The United
States of the 80's is a time of Visa, MasterCard and other forms of
identification. Americans carry it not because of orders from some Big Brother
but because they want and need it.

Applying for a job? You should want to give your Social Security number, so
payroll taxes will be properly credited to your account.  Hate identification in
principle? Probably every one of the critics has a driver's license, and
produces it without qualm when cashing a check. And if not, 41 states already
provide special cards for people without drivers' licenses who want ID.

The only practical right the Simpson-Mazzoli bill would curtail is the right to
use counterfeit identification. In exchange, the nation would greatly strengthen
its capacity to control the borders and let in legal applicants, patiently
waiting in line, instead of gatecrashers. To us, the medicine's side effects are
slight compared with the disease.

Ah, but that's not what we're afraid of, the critics say. Once you create
national identification, like the forgery-resistant Social Security card
announced just yesterday, you invite increasing intrusiveness. The police, for
instance, will want to use it to look for heinous criminals - and then
not-so-heinous criminals. This is one camel's nose that must be kept out from
under the tent.

That is always a danger with a camel, but what a sensible society does with a
camel is ride it. One does not ban telephones because they can be tapped. The
Simpson-Mazzoli bill provides a fair, humane and effective way to control
immigration. If the 97th Congress approves, it will finally have done something
to be remembered for.

TICKER: V (NYSE) (82%);

INDUSTRY: NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE
ACTIVITIES (82%);

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%);

COMPANY: VISA INC (82%);   AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION  (54%); AMERICAN CIVIL
LIBERTIES UNION (54%);

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION  (54%); AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES
UNION (54%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES  UNITED STATES (96%);

SUBJECT: CULTURAL AND NATIONAL IDENTITY; IMPERSONATIONS; LAW AND LEGISLATION;
IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; LABOR  IMMIGRATION (93%); IMMIGRATION LAW (91%);
LEGISLATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); ILLEGAL
IMMIGRANTS (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); LEGISLATIVE
BODIES (78%); FOREIGN LABOR (78%); TRANSPORTATION LAW (78%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH
(74%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (73%); BORDER CONTROL (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS
ORGANIZATIONS (70%); COUNTERFEITING (69%); LICENSES & PERMITS (69%); TAXES &
TAXATION (67%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (58%); NATIONAL IDENTITY CARDS (58%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              59 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              September 24, 1982, Friday, Late City Final Edition

NOTHING TOTALITARIAN ABOUT A WORKER'S ID CARD

SECTION: Section A; Page 26, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 545 words


To the Editor:

To equate a secure system to determine employment eligibility with
totalitarianism, as William Safire does (''The Computer Tattoo,'' column Sept.
9), is sheer nonsense. Criticisms of adequate immigration controls, based on
civil liberties, have no merit and merely distract attention from the real
issues.

he central immigration issue is whether or not this country will, at long last,
assert its sovereign right (and duty) to control its own borders, as every other
country has long done. Senator Alan Simpson and many others have correctly
judged that to do so, two things are essential: employer sanctions to prevent
the hiring of illegal aliens and a secure system of worker identification, so
that employers can easily determine which applicants are citizens or legal
residents.

The alternative is social and economic chaos, coupled with major changes in the
ethnic composition of our society, and continued rapid population growth.
Because of their proximity, and the ease with which their citizens can enter the
U.S. illegally, perhaps the greatest threat is posed by the countries of Central
America, Latin America and the Caribbean.

Their people are all worthy people, but we cannot solve those countries'
problems, which stem largely from overpopulation and continued population
growth, by allowing millions to enter the U.S., as legal or illegal aliens.

Mexico is a case in point. Its population, at present about 70 million, is
expected to double within the next 25 years or so.  Without adequate immigration
controls, we might reasonably fear that a substantial proportion of the
additional 70 million will be living and working here.

Is our present Social Security card (now too easy to obtain fraudulently and too
easy to forge and tamper with) a threat to civil liberty? Of course not. Would
it somehow be a threat if it were upgraded in order to prevent fraud, so that an
applicant for a card would have to present proof of citizenship or legal
residence to obtain one? The question answers itself.

Congress is at last on the right track in proposing effective immigration
controls. The Senate bill errs, however, by making provision for too many legal
immigrants each year. In our view, our national goal should be zero net
migration; that is, the number of legal immigrants allowed to enter the U.S.
each year should not exceed the number of American citizens and legal residents
leaving the country permanently - a number thought to be in the range of 50,000
to 100,000.

One of our top-priority national goals should be to halt and then reverse U.S.
population growth (now about three million a year).  There is no valid reason
why we should continue to allow immigration - which now accounts for over half
our annual growth in population - to contribute to any further increase in our
numbers.  DONALD MANN President Negative Population Growth, Inc.

New York, Sept. 15, 1982

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%);
MEXICO (79%); CENTRAL AMERICA (77%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES  UNITED STATES (94%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); LATIN
AMERICA (79%); MEXICO (79%); CENTRAL AMERICA (77%);

SUBJECT: LABOR; LAW AND LEGISLATION; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; CULTURAL AND
NATIONAL IDENTITY  IMMIGRATION (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); LETTERS &
COMMENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); IMMIGRATION LAW (89%); POPULATION
GROWTH (89%); LEGISLATION (85%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); FOREIGN LABOR (78%);
LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (78%); POPULATION SIZE (76%); LEGISLATORS (76%);
EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (73%); BORDER CONTROL (72%);
CRIME PREVENTION (69%); CITIZENSHIP (51%);

PERSON: ANN LIVERMORE (50%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              60 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              September 24, 1982, Friday, Late City Final Edition

NOTHING TOTALITARIAN ABOUT WORKER'S ID CARD

SECTION: Section A; Page 26, Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 414 words


To the Editor:

William Safire terms the development of a secure system to determine employee
eligibility for work purposes in the United States ''this generation's longest
step toward totalitarianism.'' I take great exception.

As former chairman of the Civil Rights Commission and more recently chairman of
the Select Commission on Immigration and Refugee Policy, I have not been
unmindful of attempts to abridge freedom and curtail civil liberties. Neither
have Senator Alan Simpson and Representative Ron Mazzoli, the architects of the
immigration reform bill being debated in the Congress, or Representative Peter
Rodino, the able chairman of the House Judiciary Committee.

Identification systems to be used upon application for a job and for work
purposes only are no different from other forms of identification required by
our society today and readily accepted by millions of Americans: credit cards
which must be checked by merchants; identification cards other than driver's
licenses used for cashing checks; Social Security numbers to open bank accounts,
register for school or obtain employment.

Sufficient safeguards to prevent the abuse of any worker identification system
must be written into the law. The Simpson-Mazzoli bill, as adopted by the Senate
and as under consideration by the House, contains these safeguards, and we shall
all work to maintain their sanctity.

In my view and in the view of many of my colleagues on the Select Commission, it
is of paramount importance that the United States take control of its own
borders, legalize a substantial number of undocumented persons currently in our
country and bring them out of the shadows, guarantee that in the future American
citizens and permanent resident aliens will have the opportunity to get the jobs
that are available, and demagnetize the U.S. as a source of jobs for
undocumented persons seeking work.

Contrary to what Mr. Safire says, I see a nondiscriminatory worker
identification system, coupled with sanctions against employers who knowingly
hire undocumented aliens, as an effort to increase the rights of American
workers, not to abridge our freedoms.

Raising the specter of ''Big Brotherdom,'' calling a worker identification
system totalitarian or labeling it ''the computer tattoo'' does not further the
debate on U.S. immigration policy; it only poisons it.  (Rev.)
THEODORE M. HESBURGH, Co-Chairperson, Citizens' Committee for Immigration
Reform, Washington, Sept. 14, 1982

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES  UNITED STATES (97%);

SUBJECT: LABOR; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; CULTURAL AND NATIONAL IDENTITY; LAW
AND LEGISLATION  IMMIGRATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW
(90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (78%);

 US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); CIVIL RIGHTS (77%); REFUGEES (77%); PUBLIC POLICY
(76%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (76%); LEGISLATION (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%);

 LICENSES & PERMITS (69%); NATIONAL IDENTITY CARDS (57%);

PERSON: WILLIAM L SAFIRE  (92%); ALAN K SIMPSON  (72%); PETER WALLACE RODINO JR

 (57%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              61 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

             September 23, 1982, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

HOUSE UNIT BACKS IMMIGRATION BILL

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 21, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 926 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 22


The House Judiciary Committee today approved a bill containing a comprehensive
revision of the nation's immigration laws. But the bill differs from one passed
by the Senate, and it was not immediately clear whether Congress could complete
action on the legislation before it adjourns in early October.

The House committee's bill contains a ban on the employment of illegal aliens
and would offer an amnesty to several million illegal aliens. No one knows the
precise number of illegal aliens who would qualify.

By a voice vote, the committee recommended passage of the bill by the full
House. But the panel was deeply divided. Voting 15 to 13, it defeated a motion
to send the legislation back to the Subcommittee on Immigration for further
work.

Just before the final vote, Representative Romano L. Mazzoli, Democrat of
Kentucky, the bill's chief sponsor, told his colleagues: ''This bill is
imperfect. I am the first one to say it is.'' But he added that it was also
''fair, balanced, sensible, humane and workable.''

Called First Such Effort

A co-sponsor, Representative Hamilton Fish Jr., Republican of upstate New York,
said that ''this bill comes to grips for the first time with serious enforcement
of the law'' on illegal aliens.

The Senate last month approved an immigration bill that is generally similar to
the House bill but different in many details. If the legislation is not passed
in precisely the same form by both Houses before adjournment, it dies and the
work of writing an immigration bill would have to start over in both houses in
January.

The bill approved by the Judiciary Committee establishes a graduated system of
penalties for employers who hire illegal aliens.  The penalties range from a
warning on the first offense to a maximum, on the fourth offense, of one year in
prison and a $3,000 fine for each illegal alien worker.

The House bill, like the Senate's, establishes a two-tier system for granting
legal status to illegal aliens. Aliens who entered the country before Jan. 1,
1977 and had resided here continuously since then would be eligible for
permanent resident status. The bill would grant ''temporary resident'' status to
those who entered from Jan. 1, 1977 to Jan. 1, 1980. After three years in that
status, temporary residents could become permanent residents. Aliens can apply
for citizenship after five years as permanent residents.

Administration Lobbying

Aliens who have entered the country since Jan. 1, 1980 would not be eligible for
the amnesty.  Administration officials mounted an intensive lobbying effort
today for Congressional approval of an immigration bill that President Reagan
could sign.

The House Judiciary Committee today approved, then reconsidered and rejected an
amendment that would have guaranteed full Federal reimbursement of state and
local governments for the cost of all welfare and medical assistance provided to
aliens who receive amnesty. The amendment was offered by Representative Don
Edwards, Democrat of California.

Administration officials, including Deputy Attorney General Edward C. Schmults,
persuaded several Republicans to switch their votes on the Edwards amendment,
saying it was so costly it would, in effect, kill the bill. The Administration
wants a comprehensive immigration bill but opposed the original Edwards
amendment.

Revised Amendment Approved

The committee later approved a revised version of the amendment that would
provide reimbursement to state and local governments, ''subject to available
appropriations.''

On the question whether there was time for full House action on the bill, the
Speaker of the House, Representative Thomas P. O'Neill Jr., said today that the
Judiciary Committee Chairman, Representative Peter W. Rodino Jr., Democrat of
New Jersey, had made no request to have the bill considered on the floor. ''It
has not been mentioned to me as a priority,'' the Speaker said.

Mr. Rodino said he intended to make such a request. The bill ''is a priority
with me,'' he said.  The House Majority Leader, Representative Jim Wright,
Democrat of Texas, said the bill would be ''highly controversial'' and would
have ''a difficult time passing.''

But Representative Mazzoli, the bill's sponsor, said ''a lot of people are
feeding the Speaker erroneous information about the bill.'' He said the
information came from lobbyists and members of Congress who opposed the bill.

Propriety Is Debated

Today's action by the House Judiciary Committee followed a lengthy debate on the
propriety of granting amnesty to illegal aliens.  Proponents said amnesty was a
necessary corollary to fines and prison terms for employers hiring illegal
aliens.

But Representative Bill McCollum, Republican of Florida, said amnesty would be
''a reward for lawbreakers,'' an incentive for more illegal immigration and a
burden to state and local governments, which would have to provide welfare and
social services to some of the aliens.

''This act of legalization provides a magnet effect to draw millions of aliens
across the border in the hope that they too may be given amnesty and they too
may be given access to the economic fruits of our country without having to wait
in line,'' Mr. McCollum said.

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%);

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES  UNITED STATES (94%);   NEW YORK, USA (79%);

SUBJECT: LAW AND LEGISLATION; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION  LEGISLATION (95%);
IMMIGRATION (92%); APPROVALS (92%); IMMIGRATION LAW (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES
(90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); LEGISLATORS (89%); FOREIGN LABOR (89%); US
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LOBBYING (89%); AMNESTY (89%); FINES & PENALTIES
(78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); NATURALIZATION (78%); CITIZENSHIP LAW (78%); US
REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY
(73%); CRIMINAL FINES (62%); US PRESIDENTS (60%); CITIZENSHIP (50%);

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (50%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              62 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

             September 23, 1982, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

U.S. MOVES TO PAROLE 49 HAITIANS HELD IN BROOKLYN

BYLINE: By JOSEPH P. FRIED

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 800 words


The Justice Department said yesterday that it intended to parole 49 illegal
Haitian aliens who had been detained in Brooklyn for from nine to 13 months
while their applications for legal admission into the United States were
pending.

The 49 had not been covered by the ruling of a Federal court in Miami in June
that called for parole of 1,774 other illegal Haitian refugees being held
elsewhere in the United States and in Puerto Rico.

Their continued detention had provoked charges of unfairness by their attorneys
and other critics of the continued detention, but immigration officials had said
that they were enforcing the law and that release of the 49 was not required by
any court ruling.

Yesterday, however, a spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service,
a branch of the Justice Department, said the service had concluded, ''for
humanitarian reasons and in order to avoid any appearance of unfairness, that
all Haitians in detention on the date of the court order'' issued in Miami by
Judge Eugene Spellman ''should be treated similarly.''

The spokesman, Duke Austin, said he did not think the Reagan Administration had
bowed to public criticism, including criticism in the press, in deciding to
parole the Brooklyn detainees. ''We're saying we're doing it now because we feel
we want to be fair,'' he said.

Asked why the Administration had not felt it would be fair to release the
Brooklyn detainees earlier, he said officials had been focusing on the problems
of releasing the much larger group covered by Judge Spellman's order. Now, he
said, ''we have experience under that program and feel we could probably use
those conditions and experience to parole these people.''

An attorney for the 49, Arthur C. Helton of the Lawyers Committee for
International Human Rights, said of the parole plan announced yesterday: ''I
would consider it the only just, proper and legal outcome. I would give a good
deal of credit for the outcome to a very concerned press as well as interested
politicians.''

Mr. Austin said he could not predict when the first of the 49 will be released
from the Brooklyn detention facility, a former Navy prison at 136 Flushing
Avenue, on the edge of the Fort Greene section. He said that would depend on how
quickly a program could be set up under which sponsors - such as church groups
or individual families - could be found for each person and other conditions
could be arranged ''to insure the appearance of those paroled for later
processing.''

That processing involves a series of hearings and appeals that will end with
each detainee either being permitted to remain in the United States under
political asylum or being sent back to Haiti.

Dispute Over Status

The Haitians contend that they are political refugees and are seeking political
asylum. The Government says they are economic refugees, and thus not eligible
for admission.

They were detained under a policy, adopted by the Reagan Administration 15
months ago, of placing illegal aliens in detention until their status was
determined. Previously, Mr. Austin said, such aliens were paroled pending the
status proceedings.

Supporters of the Haitians detained under the policy charged that it
discriminated against them. In his decision, Judge Spellman ruled that the
policy was not discriminatory, but that 1,774 of the Haitians detained under it
had been jailed illegally because the Government had not given proper notice and
opportunity for public comment before implementing the policy.

However, he said his parole order did not apply to the Haitians being held in
Brooklyn because their separate lawsuit for parole had been lost in the Federal
Court of Appeals in Manhattan.

2 Have Been Given Asylum

The Administration undertook the tougher detention policy to try to stem the
tide of illegal ''boat people'' from Haiti, and Mr. Austin said this had worked.
In 1980, he said yesterday, more than 15,000 Haitians had been caught trying to
enter the country illegally. Thus far in 1982, he said, only 84 had been found.

As of yesterday, he said, more than 1,500 of the detainees covered by Judge
Spellman's order had been paroled, with two having been granted political asylum
and none yet sent back to Haiti. Those who have been denied asylum by
immigration judges are appealing, he said.

The men and women being held in Brooklyn have been kept in conditions that their
lawyers called coercive and highly inadequate.  They said the refugees had not
been provided adequate medical care or recreational and social services.

COUNTRY: HAITI (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); PUERTO RICO (92%);

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%);

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%);

COMPANY: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE  (94%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (94%);

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE  (94%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (94%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;HAITI; UNITED STATES; NEW YORK CITY  HAITI (98%); UNITED STATES
(95%); PUERTO RICO (92%);   NEW YORK, USA (95%);   NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%);

SUBJECT: REFUGEES AND EXPATRIATES; ILLEGAL ALIENS; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION;
PRISONS AND PRISONERS  IMMIGRATION (91%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (91%); PAROLE
(90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); REFUGEES (90%); DECISIONS &
RULINGS (90%); LAWYERS (89%); POLITICAL ASYLUM (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS
(78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS
(76%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (73%); RELIGION (50%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              63 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              September 20, 1982, Monday, Late City Final Edition

THE CITY;
4 Poles Remain In U.S. Custody

SECTION: Section B; Page 3, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 207 words


Four Polish nationals who sailed into Port Elizabeth, N.J., last Thursday after
a four-month voyage from Greece in a 38-foot sailboat remained in custody
yesterday pending action by immigration officials on their request to remain in
the United States.

Mary Mistrette, acting district director of the Newark office of the Immigration
and Naturalization Service, which is handling the case, declined yesterday to
answer any questions about the four. She also refused to amplify on a brief
statement Friday confirming that the four Poles had arrived and were being
detained while their request to stay was being considered.

The immigration service's office was closed over the weekend, and there were no
indications that officials were conferring on the case. The four men were being
held at immigration service facilities at 35 Remsen Street in Brooklyn.

Before being taken into custody, one of the Poles, who spoke English, said in an
interview that all were members of the outlawed Solidarity labor union and had
left families and weathered an Atlantic crossing to escape from Poland, which
has been under martial law since last December.

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); POLAND (90%);

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%);

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (88%);

COMPANY: IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE  (58%); IMMIGRATION &
NATURALIZATION SERVICE (58%);

ORGANIZATION: IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE  (58%); IMMIGRATION &
NATURALIZATION SERVICE (58%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;POLAND; UNITED STATES  UNITED STATES (94%); POLAND (90%);   NEW
JERSEY, USA (94%);   NEWARK, NJ, USA (88%);

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; REFUGEES AND EXPATRIATES  IMMIGRATION
(92%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%);
REFUGEES (72%); LABOR UNIONS (51%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              64 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              September 20, 1982, Monday, Late City Final Edition

CHANCES DIM ON PASSING NEW IMMIGRATION LAW

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section B; Page 11, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 653 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 19


Chances for approval of a comprehensive immigration bill in the current session
of Congress seemed to decline last week when the chairman of a second House
committee asserted a right to have the bill reviewed by his panel.

The chairman, Representative Carl D. Perkins, who heads the Committee on
Education and Labor, said his panel had ''clear, unquestionable jurisdiction''
over those sections of the bill relating to the importation of foreign laborers.

Accordingly, Mr. Perkins, a Kentucky Democrat, asked Speaker of the House Thomas
P. O'Neill Jr. to refer the bill to the education panel after the Judiciary
Committee finishes work on it. Mr. Perkins said he wanted to be sure that the
legislation maintained labor standards designed to protect aliens working
temporarily in the United States.

The regulations, he said, are also designed to ''prevent an adverse effect on
the domestic work force.'' The bill, sponsored by Representative Romano L.
Mazzoli, Democrat of Kentucky, sets fines and prison terms for employers hiring
illegal aliens, but it also offers amnesty to millions of illegal aliens already
in the country. Last month the Senate, by a vote of 80 to 19, passed an
immigration bill sponsored by Senator Alan K. Simpson, Republican of Wyoming.

Opponents Back Perkins

The Senate report on the bill said it was ''the first comprehensive immigration
reform effort'' in 30 years.  Opponents of the House bill, including Hispanic
American groups, had urged Mr. Perkins to assert his right of review in the hope
that it would slow the bill's progress and prevent enactment. A committee aide
said that Mr. Perkins was not trying to ''kill the bill,'' but was genuinely
concerned that it might weaken the labor standards found in existing
regulations.

Mr. Mazzoli has said that the bill would streamline the process for admitting
agricultural workers from Mexico and other countries, but he maintained that it
would not adversely affect American workers.

The Judiciary Committee considered the Mazzoli bill and numerous proposed
amendments for three days last week. It is scheduled to take up the bill again
Tuesday and could vote then to report it favorably to the full House.

Interest of Other Panels

A third panel, the Agriculture Committee, headed by Representative E. (Kika) de
la Garza, Democrat of Texas, may also ask for referral of the bill, committee
aides said. And a fourth, the House Budget Committee, might also want to examine
the bill because it requires ''an increase in Border Patrol and other
enforcement activities of the Immigration and Naturalization Service,'' as well
as a new system for verifying that all job applicants are either citizens or
aliens authorized to work in this country.

Mr. de la Garza has asked staff lawyers to determine whether the Agriculture
Committee has a ''jurisdictional claim'' on the bill.  Committee aides said
there probably was a basis for such a claim because the Agriculture Committee
had authorized a program under which Mexican farm workers were admitted to the
United States from 1942 to 1964.

If Mr. O'Neill decides to refer the immigration bill to another committee, he
could limit the time for its consideration by the committee. The time could be
as short as one day or as long as several months.

The House is scheduled to adjourn Oct. 8. Supporters of the Mazzoli bill said
they were troubled by the prospect of any delays, but they found consolation in
Congress's plan to return for a special session after the elections in November.
President Reagan has asked Congress to hold the session so it could pass
appropriations bills, but once Congress reconvenes, it could also act on other
legislation.

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%);

STATE: KENTUCKY, USA (92%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES  UNITED STATES (96%);   KENTUCKY, USA (92%);

SUBJECT: LAW AND LEGISLATION; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION  IMMIGRATION (93%);
LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); FOREIGN LABOR (90%);
APPROVALS (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS
(89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LEGISLATORS
(78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (76%);
TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (73%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT
(72%); FARM LABOR (71%); BORDER CONTROL (69%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (67%); BUDGETS
(67%); AGRICULTURE (67%); LAWYERS (60%); CRIMINAL FINES (53%);

PERSON: ALAN K SIMPSON  (55%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              65 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              September 19, 1982, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

IMMIGRATION AGENCY'S MOVE OPPOSED

BYLINE: Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 28, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 894 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Sept. 18


Waiting in line on the street for up to 18 hours to deal with the Immigration
and Naturalization Service often makes people unpleasant. Were it not for the
line, which often begins to form by midnight, a proposal to move the Federal
agency's office out of downtown might set off fewer howls.

''Everybody knows that a lot of influential people don't want I.N.S. in downtown
Miami,'' said a resident of the area near 79th Street and Biscayne Boulevard,
where the agency is supposed to move to make room for an expanded United States
Attorney's office. ''But we certainly don't want it here, either.''

The downtown office has been considered convenient because it is served well by
public transportation, and for almost 20 years it created no controversy.

But about a year ago the long lines began to form outside, mainly because the
agency adopted a procedure under which nearly every client of the agency, alien
or citizen, now has to appear personally before an agency official.  Under this
''up-front adjudication'' policy, applications filed by mail are either returned
or not acted upon.

Fights and Heat in the Line

As a result, hundreds of people have started forming lines, often at midnight,
to be able to see an official by 4 P.M. On occasion, fist and knife fights have
broken out, and the police have had to intervene.

Complaints by many clients exhausted by waiting all day in the Florida sun have
not made immigration officials change the policy.  The agency, part of the
Justice Department, has regarded the situation outside its building as a problem
under the city's jurisdiction.

''This might be technically true,'' said Mayor Maurice A. Ferre.  ''But this is
the worst bureaucratic buck-passing I have ever seen.  The I.N.S. has caused a
serious problem, and now they are blaming the city for it. This is absurd. They
are the ones who are to be blamed for a chaotic situation in downtown Miami.''

The city's efforts to deal with the problem have hardly made the line go away.
In May, after several fights broke out in the line and it became known that a
number of people were selling their places in the line, the city manager allowed
occupational licenses to be issued for people holding places.

''For months now, every morning when I come to work I see the same five or six
individuals standing in line,'' an official of the agency said. ''I know that
later they sell their places to lawyers or others for up to $150 each. So they
make at least $500 a week, they pocket the money and might even have a license
to steal. It's really disgraceful.''

Criticism from the Mayor

Mr. Ferre calls the licensing plan an ''asinine measure'' and has urged the City
Commission to rescind it.  People who stand in line have been particularly
bitter.  ''I came from Cuba a couple of years ago thinking that I left 'Fidel
lines' behind,'' said a Cuban refugee who refused to be identified. ''I did not
know that here I would have to stand in a 'Reagan line.' Someone who invented
this system is certainly not a friend of the President.''

''We realize that we are in the middle of a larger problem,'' said Beverly
McFarland, spokesman for the agency's Miami office. ''We did not introduce the
up-front ajudication on our own, nor did we ask to move. And we know that nobody
wants us.''

At a public hearing, those most vocally opposed to the move were merchants and
homeowners from around 79th Street. Grace Rockafellar, president of the
Northeast Miami Improvement Association, to which many 79th Street merchants
belong, said the group would sue the Government if the General Services
Administration proceeded with the relocation.

Crime Problems in the Past

About two and a half years ago, when the immigration agency opened a small
satellite office at 79th Street, Mrs. Rockafellar said, crime increased and
businesses were ruined. The office closed after residents took the Government to
court.

''Now that merchants are just starting to get back on their feet, see what
happens?,'' she said. ''The G.S.A. is returning to the scene of the crime.''

Officials of the immigration agency, who requested anonymity, also expressed
strong feelings about the move and their work.  ''As any human being, I would
like to be liked,'' one official said. ''It's hard to be working for an agency
that tops the list in unpopularity. But the people don't realize the pressure we
are working under, or the abuse we have to suffer from no fault of our own.''

Immigration officials say Haitian refugees would apparently be the prime
beneficiaries of the move, since the new site is within walking distance of a
Haitian neighborhood. Cubans and other Latin refugees, many of whom rely on
public transportation, would not be able to reach 79th Street as easily.

The immigration agency estimates that more than 80 percent of its clients are
Latin and less than 10 percent are Haitian.  A spokesman for the General
Services Administration said the Justice Department would decide whether and
where to move the agency next month.

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%);

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (94%);

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (94%);

COMPANY: IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE  (90%); IMMIGRATION &
NATURALIZATION SERVICE (84%);

ORGANIZATION: IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE  (90%); IMMIGRATION &
NATURALIZATION SERVICE (84%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; MIAMI (FLA)  UNITED STATES (94%);   FLORIDA, USA
(94%);   MIAMI, FL, USA (94%);

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; REFUGEES AND EXPATRIATES; BUREAUCRATIC RED
TAPE  IMMIGRATION (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); RELOCATIONS (90%); CITY
GOVERNMENT (89%); CITIES (89%); IMMIGRATION LAW (78%); LAWYERS (75%); JUSTICE
DEPARTMENTS (75%); REFUGEES (73%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (72%); LICENSES &
PERMITS (66%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (64%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: photo of line outside immigration office

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              66 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

             September 18, 1982, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

POLES REACH U.S. AFTER A LONG SAIL AND ASK TO STAY

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. McFADDEN

SECTION: Section 1; Page 27, Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 476 words


Four Polish nationals who sailed into New York Harbor after a fourmonth voyage
from Greece in a 38-foot sailboat asked yesterday for permission to remain in
the United States, and immigration officials said their request was being
considered.

The immigration officials, who declined to identify the four or to say whether
they had specifically requested political asylum, issued a brief statement
saying only that they had sailed into Port Elizabeth, N.J., Thursday morning and
that they would be detained pending a decision in their case.

However, a report in The Daily Journal of Elizabeth, based on an interview with
one of the four before they were taken into custody, said that they were members
of Poland's outlawed Solidarity labor union and had left families and braved an
Atlantic crossing to escape from Poland, which has been under martial law since
last Dec. 13.

The man interviewed, Jarek Neczaj-Hruzewics, a 38-year-old chemist from Lublin
who was the only English-speaking member of the group, was quoted as having said
that he wanted political asylum in the United States and that some of his
shipmates also wanted to defect.  He declined to say which ones.

Others Identified

''They have escaped from Poland the way she is now, and if she changes they will
come back,'' he said of his companions. He identified them as Andrzej Plewik,
37, of Pulaway, captain of the boat; Andrzej Bienkowski, 34, the first mate, and
Stanley Kozak, 38, the second mate, both of Lublin.

The newspaper quoted Mr. Neczaj-Hruzewics as saying the group had received
permission four months ago to fly to Athens, where their boat was moored, and to
sail it back to Poland during what was supposed to be a two-month vacation.

Instead, he said, they headed west through the Mediterranean Sea, touching at
ports in Africa, France and Spain. Then, he said, they passed through the
Straits of Gibraltar and crossed the Atlantic, stopping in Bermuda before going
on to the United States.

They chose to land in Elizabeth, Mr. Neczaj-Hruzewics said, because they have
friends there.

Detained One Night on Boat

An anonymous caller notified the Elizabeth police, who ordered the men to stay
on the boat until immigration and customs officials arrived. The men, deeply
tanned and clad in work clothes, were detained aboard their boat Thursday night
by the United States Coast Guard on Governor's Island. They were then taken to
Newark yesterday for daylong interviews.

Mary Mistrette, acting district director of the Newark office of the Immigration
and Naturalization Service, which was in charge of the case, said the four men
were being held at immigration detention facilities in Brooklyn.

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); POLAND (93%); GREECE (90%); AFRICA (79%);
MEDITERRANEAN (79%); SPAIN (72%); FRANCE (52%);

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%);
MEDITERRANEAN SEA (79%);

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ATHENS, GREECE (78%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;POLAND; UNITED STATES  UNITED STATES (95%); POLAND (93%); GREECE
(90%); AFRICA (79%); MEDITERRANEAN (79%); SPAIN (72%); FRANCE (52%);   NEW YORK,
USA (94%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); MEDITERRANEAN SEA (79%);

   NEWARK, NJ, USA (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ATHENS, GREECE (78%);

SUBJECT: BOATS AND BOATING; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; IMMIGRATION AND
EMIGRATION; REFUGEES AND EXPATRIATES; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT  IMMIGRATION
(93%); MARINE VESSELS (90%); SAILING (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); POLITICAL
ASYLUM (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); BOATING & RAFTING (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT
(77%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (73%); IMMIGRANT DETENTION CENTERS (72%); REFUGEES
(72%); POLITICS (71%); LABOR UNIONS (54%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: Officials on Governors Island examining sailboat used by
the Poles to cross the Atlantic

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              67 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              September 17, 1982, Friday, Late City Final Edition

HOUSE PANEL PROGRESSING ON IMMIGRATION BILL

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 15, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 527 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 16


The House Judiciary Committee made slow but steady progress today in writing a
bill to overhaul the nation's immigration laws.

The panel approved a major amendment guaranteeing access to the courts for
aliens, including those who entered the United States illegally. The Senate last
month passed an immigration bill, strongly supported by the Reagan
Administration, that would have restricted access to the courts for many aliens
seeking asylum or challenging orders for their expulsion from this country.

The chairman of the Judiciary Committee, Representative Peter W.  Rodino Jr.,
Democrat of New Jersey, said that such restrictions were unacceptable, and his
colleagues agreed with him.

Those who come to this country seeking refuge from persecution must have an
opportunity to present their claims to a Federal court if their applications are
rejected by the Justice Department, Mr. Rodino said. Otherwise, he said, ''we
become accomplices to the imprisonment, torture and murder that await them upon
their return to their home country.''

Amendment Wins Praise

The amendment, offered by Representative Barney Frank, Democrat of
Massachusetts, won praise from the American Civil Liberties Union, the American
Immigration Lawyers Association and Hispanic groups, including the Mexican
American Legal Defense and Educational Fund.

Those groups had all been extremely critical of the restrictions contained in
the Senate bill. The civil liberties group and major Hispanic organizations
still object to many other features of the bill.

On another hotly debated issue, the Judiciary Committee, by a vote of 15 to 12,
eliminated sections of the bill that would place a ceiling on legal immigration
and revamp the system for allocating visas.

The Justice Department, meanwhile, intensified its lobbying in support of the
bill. Department officials told members of Congress today that passage of such a
bill was the top legislative priority of Attorney General William French Smith.

Reagan Plans Appeal

Administration officials said that President Reagan would make a public appeal
for passage of the immigration bill when he speaks on Friday, which is
Citizenship Day, at a naturalization ceremony in Whitehouse Station, N.J., north
of Trenton. Mr. Reagan is going to New Jersey to assist the Senate campaign of
Representative Millicent Fenwick, a Republican.

With only three weeks remaining before adjournment, members of Congress said
there was no way to determine whether the immigration bill would be enacted. The
bill seemed to be gaining momentum today as the House Judiciary Committee
considered numerous amendments, dealing with both major issues and minor
details.

The forecast most often given by senior members of Congress was that the bill
would gain approval from the Judiciary Committee, but would not reach the floor
of the House. The new Congress, according to this forecast, could then resume
work on an immigration bill next January.

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%);

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%);

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%);

COMPANY: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE  (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (56%);
MEXICAN AMERICAN LEGAL DEFENSE & EDUCATIONAL FUND (55%); AMERICAN IMMIGRATION
LAWYERS ASSOCIATION (55%); AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION  (55%); AMERICAN CIVIL
LIBERTIES UNION (55%);

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE  (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (56%);
MEXICAN AMERICAN LEGAL DEFENSE & EDUCATIONAL FUND (55%); AMERICAN IMMIGRATION
LAWYERS ASSOCIATION (55%); AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION  (55%); AMERICAN CIVIL
LIBERTIES UNION (55%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES  UNITED STATES (96%);   NEW JERSEY, USA (92%);
MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%);   TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%);

SUBJECT: LAW AND LEGISLATION; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; ILLEGAL ALIENS; QUOTAS

 IMMIGRATION (92%); IMMIGRATION LAW (92%); LEGISLATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES

 (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); APPROVALS (90%); LEGISLATORS (89%); LAW
ENFORCEMENT (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (88%);
NATURALIZATION (78%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (78%); POLITICAL ASYLUM (78%); ATTORNEYS
GENERAL (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); LOBBYING
(77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (76%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS

 (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); TORTURE (71%); CITIZENSHIP (66%);

PERSON: BARNEY FRANK (55%); RONALD REAGAN (53%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              68 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

             September 16, 1982, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

HOUSE COMMITTEE BACKS PENALTIES FOR THOSE WHO HIRE ILLEGAL ALIENS

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section D; Page 23, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 499 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 15


The House Judiciary Committee, in its first votes on a comprehensive immigration
bill, today endorsed fines and jail terms for employers who hire illegal aliens.

By a voice vote, the committee rejected a proposal by Representative Patricia
Schroeder that would have barred specific sanctions against employers of illegal
aliens. The panel then approved a penalty system recommended by the committee
chairman, Representative Peter W. Rodino Jr., Democrat of New Jersey.

Under his amendment, an employer who hired illegal aliens would receive a
warning from the Justice Department for the first offense.  A second violation
would subject the employer to a $1,000 fine for each illegal alien on the
payroll. The fine for a third offense would rise to $2,000 for each alien
worker. For subsequent violations, the employer would face one year in jail and
a $3,000 fine for each illegal alien worker.

Federal law does not now explicitly prohibit the hiring of illegal aliens.

Fears of Discrimination

Mrs. Schroeder, a Colorado Democrat, said she wanted ''to put the employer
sanctions on ice'' because she was concerned that enforcement of a ban on hiring
illegal aliens might lead to discrimination against Hispanic Americans, who
account for about 19 percent of her district's population.

Her amendment would have made it illegal to hire illegal aliens, but would have
sought enforcement through existing labor laws, such as the minimum-wage
regulations.

Representative Romano L. Mazzoli, Democrat of Kentucky, the chief sponsor of the
immigration bill, called the proposed penalties ''the heart and soul of any
effort'' to curb immigration.

It remains uncertain whether Congress can complete action on a comprehensive
immigration bill before adjournment, scheduled for early October. In a letter to
Mr. Rodino, Jim Wright, the House majority leader, warned about rushing a bill
through''without making sure that it has been given the extremely serious
consideration that a matter of this magnitude deserves.''

Mr. Wright, Democrat of Texas, will have a large say in scheduling floor action
on the bill.

Senate Action Completed

The Senate approved a similar bill last month by a vote of 80 to 19. However,
the penalties in the Senate bill range from a $1,000 fine for each alien to a
$2,000 fine for each alien and a possible six-month jail term.

Both the House and Senate measures would require employers to check passports,
Social Security cards or other documents to confirm that job applicants were
American citizens or aliens authorized to work in the United States.

Both bills would also offer amnesty to millions of illegal aliens now living in
the United States and establish new rules for determining preferences in the
allocation of visas for those wishing to enter this country.

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%);

STATE: COLORADO, USA (79%);

COMPANY: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE  (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (57%);

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE  (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (57%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES  UNITED STATES (97%);   COLORADO, USA (79%);

SUBJECT: LAW AND LEGISLATION; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; ILLEGAL ALIENS; HIRING
AND PROMOTION; FINES (PENALTIES)  FOREIGN LABOR (94%); CRIMINAL FINES (94%);
ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (93%); IMMIGRATION (92%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); FINES &
PENALTIES (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%);
PASSPORTS & VISAS (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); WAGE VIOLATIONS
(78%); JAIL SENTENCING (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT
LAW (78%); WAGE & HOUR LAWS (78%); LEGISLATORS (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%);
LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%);
APPROVALS (77%); AMNESTY (77%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (73%); MINIMUM WAGE (73%);
MINIMUM WAGE LAWS (73%); POPULATION SIZE (71%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (55%);

PERSON: JAMES F WRIGHT  (53%); JAMES F WRIGHT (53%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              69 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

             September 15, 1982, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

WHAT ABOUT LEGAL ALIENS WHO WANT TO STAY

SECTION: Section A; Page 26, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 561 words


To the Editor:

We are writing this letter to comment on the immigration reform bill recently
approved by the Senate, which would grant amnesty to millions of illegal aliens
in the United States (news story Aug. 18). v.e are a group of foreigners from
various countries who were legally admitted to the United States a number of
years ago (3 to 10). We all have visas, and some of us, having obtained graduate
degrees in various specialized engineering and science fields, were granted
temporary work status (e.g., one-year student practical training status). In the
years we have been here, we have developed a love for this country, and we wish
to stay to put our education to good use.

We feel that the new immigration legislation is of good intent.  However, by
only taking care of illegal aliens, it is unfair to those foreigners who have
legal status and wish to stay. Legal aliens, we believe, should at least be
treated the same as illegal aliens and be given the opportunity to obtain
automatic permanent-residence status or provisional permanent-residence status,
depending on how long they have been here.

Our reasons are as follows:

* The majority of the legal aliens came to this country, as we did, with a true
admiration for its culture and people. We arrived as friends of America, and our
conduct has been in harmony with the law. On the other hand, illegal aliens have
been de-fying the law of the United States ever since they entered the country,
and there is no guarantee that they would not break the law again in the future.

Current immigration procedures require a legal alien who desires to stay here
permanently to go through a great deal of paper work and wait for years for
approval. Under the proposed law, illegal aliens would receive
permanent-residence status immediately and automatically, simply because their
entry and their residence contravened the law.

* A large number of legal aliens are highly educated scientists and engineering
specialists. It is obvious that legal aliens have much more to contribute to
this country than their illegal counterparts. For the same reason, they are also
more accustomed to the American life style and could communicate more
effectively with the American people.

* The number of legal aliens who wish to stay permanently in the U.S. is far
lower than the estimated total of three to six million illegal aliens. We
understand the reasons for granting them amnesty, but we feel that the
relatively small group of foreigners who have abided by the law should not be
neglected.

This letter has been read and endorsed by 27 other legal aliens from various
countries. We believe it reflects the views of all those legal aliens in various
parts of the U.S. who desire to stay in this country. We hope that, in revising
immigration procedures, the Government will take our views into consideration.
RAMAMOORTHI M. BHASKAR DEE KOU LI, EDWARD LOTEEF LARMA H. SINGH Cleveland, Sept.
9, 1982

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES  UNITED STATES (98%);

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; FOREIGN POPULATION AND FOREIGN DESCENT
GROUPS; BUREAUCRATIC RED TAPE; ILLEGAL ALIENS; LAW AND LEGISLATION  IMMIGRATION
(96%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (93%); APPROVALS (91%); IMMIGRATION LAW (91%); LETTERS
& COMMENTS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); AMNESTY (90%);
EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (70%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              70 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

             September 15, 1982, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

House Panel Takes Up;
Immigration Measure

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section B; Page 11, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 183 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 14


The House Judiciary Committee began work today on a bill that would penalize
employers who knowingly hired illegal aliens and would grant amnesty to millions
of such immigrants already living in the United States.

Faced with an Oct. 8 target date for Congressional adjournment, the committee
plans to complete action on the measure, which would overhaul Federal
immigration laws, in time to allow a House floor vote next week. A similar
measure was passed by the Senate last month by a 80-to-19 vote.

Sponsors hope that differences between the Senate and House versions can be
reconciled by a conference committee and a final bill sent to President Reagan
before Congress quits for the election campaign.

Representative Peter W. Rodino Jr., a New Jersey Democrat who is chairman of the
Judiciary Committee, appealed for support of employer sanctions, the heart of
the bill, but he and other committee members said they would introduce several
amendments to satisfy reservations they have about other provisions.

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES  UNITED STATES (98%);

SUBJECT: LABOR; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION; ILLEGAL ALIENS;
HIRING AND PROMOTION; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET  IMMIGRATION (94%); ILLEGAL
IMMIGRANTS (91%); AMNESTY (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LEGISLATION (88%);
ELECTIONS (88%); IMMIGRATION LAW (88%); EMPLOYMENT (88%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS
(87%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (86%); SPONSORSHIP (86%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY
(72%); US PRESIDENTS (72%);

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (57%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              71 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              September 10, 1982, Friday, Late City Final Edition

SALVADORANS' BID FOR ASYLUM DENIED BY IMMIGRATION JUDGE

BYLINE: Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 14, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 472 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Sept. 9


Two refugees from El Salvador have been denied political asylum in a test case
here.  In a decision announced today, Immigration Judge Brian H. Simpson ordered
Luis Escobar, 22 years old, and Luis Sanchez, 30, to return to El Salvador
within 30 days.

At their deportation hearing, which began in April, the two men argued that they
were members of a ''persecuted class'' in El Salvador: young, urban,
working-class males who were not associated with the military. They contended
that such men were suspected of affiliation with guerrillas and were selected
for surveillance, interrogation and death.

Represented By Volunteers

Two volunteer lawyers from the National Lawyers Guild, Marc Van Der Hout and
Carolyn Blum, argued that the two men were eligible for asylum under 1980
changes in immigration law. The law now provides that people who establish ''a
well-founded fear of persecution,'' based on their membership in a particular
religious, political, racial or social group, may be granted asylum.

They had hoped that the case would serve to establish young urban males as a
social group by showing that they were systematically killed by right-wing
''death squads.''

While acknowledging human rights violations in El Salvador, Judge Simpson
rejected their argument and held that such a group was not recognized under the
law. He ruled that Mr. Escobar and Mr. Sanchez must show some individual basis
for their contention.

Judge Simpson had allowed the two to present 12 witnesses regarding conditions
in El Salvador. Typical was Oscar Andino, a refugee who testified about his
experience working to bring food and medical assistence to various barrios and
combat zones.

Tells of Finding Bodies

Mr. Andino, a former assistant director of Cruz Verde Salvadorania, or Green
Cross, which he described as a nonpolitical group comparable to the Red Cross,
told the judge about many instances of finding the mutilated bodies of young men
killed by ''members of various security forces who act in a clandestine manner
to take the law into their own hands.''

Mr. Van Der Hout, who criticized the judge's decision, said that it would be
appealed within 10 days to the Board of Immigration Appeals in Washington. He
said that the ruling was expected to affect many of the approximately 12,000
applications for asylum by El Salvadorans currently pending.

Beverly Phillips, the lawyer who represented the Immigration and Naturalization
Service at the deportation hearings, was not available for comment. She had
argued that Mr. Escobar and Mr. Sanchez had come to the United States to
''better their economic circumstances,'' not to avoid harm.

COUNTRY: EL SALVADOR (98%); UNITED STATES (93%);

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (50%);

COMPANY: NATIONAL LAWYERS GUILD  (57%); NATIONAL LAWYERS GUILD (57%);

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL LAWYERS GUILD  (57%); NATIONAL LAWYERS GUILD (57%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;SALVADOR, EL; UNITED STATES  EL SALVADOR (98%); UNITED STATES
(93%);   SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (50%);

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; REFUGEES AND EXPATRIATES  POLITICAL ASYLUM
(94%); IMMIGRATION (93%); REFUGEES (93%); IMMIGRATION LAW (91%); CIVIC & SOCIAL
ORGANIZATIONS (90%); LAWYERS (89%); WITNESSES (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS (78%);
SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT
(78%); DEPORTATION (78%); TESTIMONY (77%); VOLUNTEERS (75%); APPEALS (70%);
HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (66%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              72 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              September 9, 1982, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

ESSAY;
THE COMPUTER TATTOO

BYLINE: By William Safire

SECTION: Section A; Page 27, Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 867 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 8


In a well-meaning effort to curb the employment of illegal aliens, and with the
hearty good wishes of editorialists who ordinarily pride themselves on guarding
against the intrusion of government into the private lives of individual
Americans, Congress is about to take this generation's longest step toward
totalitarianism.

''There is no 'slippery slope' toward loss of liberties,'' insists Senator Alan
Simpson of Wyoming, author of the latest immigration bill, ''only a long
staircase where each step downward must be first tolerated by the American
people and their leaders.''

The first step downward on the Simpson staircase to Big-Brotherdom is the
requirement that within three years the Federal Government come up with a
''secure system to determine employment eligibility in the United States.''

Despite denials, that means a national identity card. Nobody who is pushing this
bill admits that - on the contrary, all sorts of ''safeguards'' and rhetorical
warnings about not having to carry an identity card on one's person at all times
are festooned on the bill. Much is made of the use of passports, Social Security
cards and driver's licenses as ''preferred'' forms of identification, but anyone
who takes the trouble to read this legislation can see that the disclaimers are
intended to help the medicine go down.

Most American citizens are being led to believe that only aliens will be
required to show ''papers.'' But how can a prospective employer tell who is an
alien? If the applicant could say ''I'm an American, I don't have any card,''
the new control system would immediately break down. The very basis of the
proposed law is the notion that individuals must carry verifiable papers - more
likely, a card keyed to ''a new Government data bank'' - to prove eligibility
for work.

No big deal, say those who consider illegal immigration more fearsome than the
coming of an internal passport; if you're legitimate, you shouldn't object. And
shucks, law enforcement officials won't use it for anything else, nosirree - at
least not until the nation is ready for another legislated step down the
staircase.

Most Americans see no danger at all in a national identity card.  Most people
even like the idea of a piece of plastic that tells the world, and themselves,
who they are. ''I'm me,'' says the little card. ''I'm entitled to all the
benefits that go with being provably and demonstrably me.'' Good citizens - the
ones who vote regularly, and who don't get into auto accidents -might get a gold
card.

Once the down staircase is set in place, the temptation to take each next step
will be irresistible. Certainly every business would want to ask customers to
insert their identity cards into the whizbang credit checker. Banks, phone
companies, schools, hotels would all take advantage of the obvious utility of
the document that could not be counterfeited. Law enforcement and tax collection
would surely be easier, because the Federal Government would know at all times
exactly where everybody was and what they were spending.

And then you might as well live in the Soviet Union. One of the great
differences between free and enslaved societies is the right of the individual
to live and work without the government knowing his every move. There can
sometimes be privacy without freedom, as those in solitary confinement know, but
there can be no freedom without privacy.

When Patty Hearst managed to remain a fugitive for 591 days, that did not mean
the F.B.I. was bad at catching fugitives; it meant that America was a free
society. In China or the Soviet Union she would have been captured in days,
because it is impossible for ordinary citizens to move about without permission.
If our values mean anything at all, they mean that it is better to tolerate the
illegal movement of aliens and even criminals than to tolerate the constant
surveillance of the free.

The Attorney General, who evidently has no grasp of libertarian conservative
principles, will not fight this legislation. When an outside adviser, Martin
Anderson - who with his wife, Annelise, at O.M.B. represent what is left of the
conservative conscience of the Reagan Administration - objected in a Cabinet
meeting to this danger of Federal intrusion, William French Smith was forced to
tell Congress of ''a small but serious objection'' to the identity card clause.
He later made his objection meaningless by pretending it was ''inappropriate to
presume'' he would have to do what the bill mandates him to do - come up with a
foolproof identity system.

We are entering the computer age. Combined with a national identity card - an
abuse of power that Peter Rodino professes to oppose in the House, as he makes
it inevitable -government computers and data banks pose a threat to personal
liberty. Though aimed against ''undocumented workers,'' the computer tattoo will
be pressed on you and me.

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES  UNITED STATES (99%);

SUBJECT: CULTURAL AND NATIONAL IDENTITY; LAW AND LEGISLATION; IMMIGRATION AND
EMIGRATION; ILLEGAL ALIENS  ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (91%); FOREIGN LABOR (91%);
LEGISLATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); IMMIGRATION (89%); PASSPORTS &
VISAS (89%); NATIONAL IDENTITY CARDS (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE
BODIES (77%); SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); LEGISLATORS
(77%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (66%);

PERSON: ALAN K SIMPSON  (72%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: OP-ED

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              73 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              September 4, 1982, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

CONVICTIONS OF 4 IN ABSCAM CASE UPHELD BY COURT

BYLINE: By JOSEPH P. FRIED

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1, Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 1343 words


A Federal appeals court yesterday upheld the convictions of four former
Congressmen who took payoffs from undercover agents in the Justice Department's
two-year Abscam investigation.

The unanimous ruling in Manhattan by a three-judge panel of the United States
Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit was the first by a Federal appellate
court involving any of the seven former members of Congress convicted in the
investigation into political corruption.

Two previous appeals court rulings upheld the convictions of two Philadelphia
City Council members and a Federal immigration investigator.

'Jumping at Chance to Take Bribe'

In affirming the jury verdicts against the four Congressmen, along with three
co-defendants, the panel declared: ''The evidence shows four Congressmen jumping
at the chance to take a bribe and discussing investments in their districts as a
convenient cover to justify their rendering of purchased legislative services.''

Responding to contentions by the convicted men and other critics that agents in
the Government's ''sting'' operation had improperly instigated crime, the court,
in its 80-page opinion, held:

''The appellants' claim of excessive governmental involvement in the instigation
of criminal conduct is not supported by the facts.  Though the singular 'sting'
was surely elaborate, its essential characteristic was the creation of an
opportunity for the commission of crime by those willing to do so.''

Those whose convictions were affirmed were former Representatives John M. Murphy
of Staten Island, Frank Thompson Jr. of Trenton, Michael J. Myers of
Philadelphia and Raymond F. Lederer of Philadelphia.

The three others whose convictions on bribery and conspiracy charges were upheld
were Angelo J. Errichetti, former Mayor of Camden, N.J.; Louis C. Johanson, a
former Philadelphia City Councilman, and Howard L. Criden, a lawyer from
Philadelphia.

Lawyers representing Mr. Murphy, Mr. Thompson, Mr. Myers and Mr.  Criden said
they planned to appeal to the United States Supreme Court. Henry Furst, attorney
for Mr. Errichetti, said he had not yet read the opinion. Phone calls to the
offices of the attorneys for the other defendants were not returned.

The convictions were ratified on all counts except for a conflictof-interest
count against Mr. Murphy. But his conviction on charges of criminal conspir/acy
and receiving an unlawful gratuity were upheld, and he still faces three years
in prison and a $10,000 fine.

The three other former legislators were all found guilty of bribery and
conspiracy charges. Mr. Myers and Mr. Lederer face threeyear terms and $20,000
in fines. Sentencing of Mr. Thompson has been held up pending studies of his
medical condition that are awaiting the outcome of his appeals.

All of the seven whose convictions were upheld yesterday have remained free
pending the outcome of their appeals.

2 Lawyers to Seek Rehearing

Mr. Johanson has also been sentenced to three years and a $20,000 fine, and Mr.
Errichetti and Mr. Criden were each sentenced to six years and $40,000 in
penalties. The three trials involved in yesterday's decision were held in
Federal District Court in Brooklyn in 1980 and 1981.

Michael E. Tigar, a lawyer for Mr. Murphy, and Neal Rutledge, a lawyer
representing Mr. Thompson, said they would ask the three-judge panel for a
rehearing before appealing to the Supreme Court. Mr.  Tigar added that if his
petition were denied, he would ask for a hearing by the entire Second Circuit
Court.

In the investigation, Government agents posed as a wealthy Arab sheik and his
''front men'' willing to bribe American public officials in return for aid with
immigration and investment matters.

Critics of the operation charged that it had involved misconduct and
constitutional violations by agents who ''entrapped'' people in criminal
activities and enticed them into joining governmentmanufactured criminal
schemes.

Justice Department officials have denied this, holding that the operation was a
legitimate approach to rooting out Government corruption that might otherwise be
impossible to detect. Yesterday's ruling endorsed this view, stating, ''The
conduct of the investigation, though subject to some criticism, affords no basis
for rejecting the convictions.''

3 Others Also Convicted

The three other former members of Congress whom juries convicted of bribery
charges are former Senator Harrison A. Williams Jr. of New Jersey and former
Representatives John W. Jenrette of South Carolina and Richard Kelly of Florida.
All are Democrats except Mr. Kelly, who is a Republican. Mr. Kelly's conviction
was later dismissed by the trial judge in Washington, William B. Bryant, who
held that the Government's tactics in the investigation were ''outrageous.'' The
Justice Department is appealing his ruling.

Mr. Williams and Mr. Jenrette are seeking to overturn their convictions.  Thomas
P. Puccio, the former Justice Department official who was chief prosecutor in
the investigation, said yesterday's opinion ''strongly affirms the fact that the
Abscam investigation was in all respects properly conducted and that these
convictions were properly obtained.''

The opinion was written by Judge Jon O. Newman and was concurred in by Judges J.
Edward Lumbard and Henry J. Friendly.  The seven men to whom the ruling applied
were convicted of sharing $200,000 in return for help to the supposed sheik and
his aides. The payoffs were videotaped by Government agents.

'Caught on Videotape'

''The four Congressmen were caught on videotape in the very act of committing
Federal crimes,'' the opinion said.  The ruling also addressed the fact that one
of the key Abscam undercover agents was Melvin Weinberg, a convicted swindler
who was well paid for working with agents of the Federal Bureau of
Investigation. The convicted men, the court said, ''voice a chorus of
indignation that the Government would employ the services of such an
untrustworthy person as Weinberg.''

But it added that while ''the use of dishonest and deceitful informants like
Weinberg creates risks to which the attention of juries must be forcefully
called, the Constitution ''does not forbid their employment, detail their
supervision nor specify their compensation.''

Of the charge that Mr. Weinberg had ''coached'' targets of the investigation to
say incriminating things, the court said: ''Whatever the public's expectation,
the record reveals that these Congressmen were not children of Hamelin, seduced
by the piping of Melvin Weinberg.''

The court also rejected the view that ''the size of the inducements offered to
the Congressmen were excessive.'' It said, ''We have considerable difficulty
with the premise of this argument, which is that a Congressman is privileged to
take a $50,000 bribe so long as he simultaneously believes he is bringing the
benefits of investments to his district.''

It called this view ''an affront to all the law-abiding members of Congress.''
The appeals court said that the Government could retry Mr. Murphy on the
conflict-of-interest count if it wished. But Edward A.  McDonald, who succeeded
Mr. Puccio as head of the Federal Organized Crime Strike Force for the Eastern
District of New York, said that such a retrial was ''unlikely'' because Mr.
Murphy faced the same three-year prison term with or without conviction on the
conflict-ofinterest count.

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%);

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%);

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%);

COMPANY: STATEN ISLAND TERMINAL (54%);   US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE  (91%); US
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (91%);

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE  (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (91%);

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%);   NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%);
   NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%);

SUBJECT: BRIBERY; DECISIONS AND VERDICTS; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT

 APPEALS COURTS (93%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (91%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%);
LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); VERDICTS (90%); CRIMINAL
CONVICTIONS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (90%); BRIBERY
(90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); LAWYERS (89%); APPEALS
(89%); SENTENCING (89%); FINES & PENALTIES (89%); CONSPIRACY (89%); LEGISLATORS
(89%); JAIL SENTENCING (78%); SUPREME COURTS (78%); CRIMINAL FINES (78%);
MISCONDUCT (78%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (78%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (78%); JURY
TRIALS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); POLITICS (76%); CITIES (75%);
MAYORS (75%); JUDGES (73%); IMMIGRATION (55%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              74 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              September 4, 1982, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

HAITIAN REFUGEES NOT SHOWING UP FOR HEARINGS TO DETERMINE STATUS

BYLINE: By RICHARD J. MEISLIN, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 7, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 735 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Sept. 3


About one-third of the Haitian refugees scheduled for immigration hearings after
being released under a Federal court order last month have been failing to show
up. The hearings are being held to determine whether they will be able to remain
in this country.

The figures were were disclosed today by officials appearing before Federal
District Judge Eugene P. Spellman, who on June 29 ordered the release of 1,794
Haitians held in Federal detention camps around the country and in Puerto Rico.
The releases began July 23, but as of today 691 Haitian refugees were still
awaiting their freedom. So far, 39 of the refugees have been scheduled for
various types of hearings but only 12 have shown up.

The hearing today was held to review concerns about the refugee release program
and included testimony from a state social services official that some
sponsoring agencies might not be providing adequate care for the Haitians in
their charge.

''Their care and maintenance ranges from financial assistance to nothing,'' said
Linda Berkowitz, refugee coordinator for the Florida Health and Rehabilitative
Services Department.

Fears Dependence on State

She said it appeared that many were not receiving sufficient training in job
skills and cultural adjustment and expressed fear that at the end of their
120-day period of assistance from the private agencies the refugees would be
left ''high and dry and will again turn to the State of Florida'' for help.

Miss Berkowitz also said that none of the refugees had yet received
identification cards permitting them to use the health insurance acquired for
them by their sponsoring agencies, making it difficult for them to obtain
medical care. Agency representatives said they had had problems with the
insurance company and would promptly rectify this.

The United States Immigration and Naturalization Service reported that as of
this morning six of the 17 Haitians scheduled for the hearings had missed them.
Twenty-two others had been scheduled for hearings intended to assure they were
represented by legal counsel at the immigration hearings, but six of them also
failed to show up. In addition, 45 of those released have failed to make the
weekly reports of their whereabouts required by the Federal court.

An attorney for the immigration service, Leon B. Kellner, said that 19 of those
refugees had been found, 19 were still being pursued and that ''all leads were
exhausted'' in attempting to find the remaining seven.

One Granted Asylum

Of those who have appeared for their hearings before the immigration service,
only one has been granted political asylum. The rest are expected to appeal to
the Federal courts. The Government has argued that most of the refugees fled
their country for economic rather than political reasons and are not entitled to
asylum.

A spokesman for the immigration service, Beverly McFarland, said she believed
that some Haitians were failing to appear because ''they're afraid they may be
deported'' back to Haiti. But lawyers for the refugee agencies asserted that
poor record-keeping by the immigration service was to blame.

One lawyer, Eileen Campion, said she had ''suffered through three cases'' in
which the immigration service had given wrong addresses for her clients, making
it impossible to reach them to inform them of their hearings.

''It is entirely the fault of the immigration service, not the fault of the
refugee,'' she said. ''They fail to appear, Your Honor, because they did not
know the hearing was taking place.''

Disagrees with Criticism

But Mr. Kellner, the immigration service lawyer, said that the agency was merely
passing along the addresses provided by the refugees or their sponsoring
agencies when they left detention.

The failures of some Haitians to appear for their hearings raised new questions
over what to do with those who violated the terms of the court order.

A lawyer for the Haitian Refugee Center, Ira Kurzban, said that returning them
to detention might be a necessity but added that they should be entitled to
normal legal processes.

''The Government should not have the right to grab that off the street and throw
them in detention,'' he said.

COUNTRY: HAITI (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); PUERTO RICO (79%);

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (93%);

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (93%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; HAITI  HAITI (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); PUERTO RICO

 (79%);   FLORIDA, USA (93%);   MIAMI, FL, USA (93%);

SUBJECT: ILLEGAL ALIENS; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; REFUGEES AND EXPATRIATES
IMMIGRATION (93%); REFUGEES (91%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS

 (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICAL ASYLUM (89%); LAWYERS (78%);
ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (73%); HEALTH INSURANCE (73%); JUDGES (73%); INSURANCE (73%);



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              75 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 3, 1982, Friday, Late City Final Edition

DON'T SHUT COURT DOORS ON ALIENS

SECTION: Section A; Page 18, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 431 words


To the Editor:

Robert Pear's Aug. 17 news article about the Senate's passage of an immigration
reform bill omitted any reference to substantial opposition to the measure on
civil liberties grounds.

his opposition is based on the fact that the Senate bill would sweep away broad
areas of legal and constitutional protection, such as due process of law and
judicial review, in order to restrict the flow of immigrants and refugees into
this country.

The dangerous technique which is being used with increasing frequency in
Congress to undermine the authority and independence of Federal courts to decide
controversial civil rights issues is applied by the Senate bill to the
immigration area.

In recent months, Federal courts have provided a vital forum for successfully
defending the rights of Haitians, Salvadorans and others seeking political
asylum in the United States. The Senate bill would cut off access to the Federal
judiciary to anyone whose request for asylum is turned down by the Justice
Department.

This transforms the process of asylum decision-making into a political contest
governed by the changing foreign policies of each new administration. Not only
would recourse to the Federal courts be removed, but a hearing by an independent
immigration board would also be denied.

Civil libertarians are also critical of the immigration bill's enforcement
provisions and the failure of the Senate to adopt safeguards against their
discriminatory application. The employersanctions sections of the bill will
encourage employers to play it safe by hiring only persons who are, in their
opinion, obviously citizens, and discriminating against Hispanic people and
other members of the national work force who are ''foreign looking.''

The Senate's rejection of amendments to minimize this discriminatory potential
sends an unfortunate signal that equal protection of the laws is less important
than immigration control.

Now that the Senate has acted, the House should pause, take stock of this
extraordinarily sensitive area of the law and resist the temptation to tread on
domestic human rights in an eagerness to reform our immigration laws.  JOHN
SHATTUCK Director, Washington Office American Civil Liberties Union Washington,
Aug. 23, 1982

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%);

COMPANY: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE  (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (56%);

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE  (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (56%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES  UNITED STATES (94%);

SUBJECT: LAW AND LEGISLATION; FEDERAL DISTRICT COURTS; DISCRIMINATION;
IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; REFUGEES AND EXPATRIATES  IMMIGRATION (94%);
IMMIGRATION LAW (91%); LEGISLATION (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL ASYLUM (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); LEGISLATORS
(90%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (89%); EQUAL PROTECTION (89%); REFUGEES (89%); DUE
PROCESS (77%); CIVIL RIGHTS (77%); DISCRIMINATION (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS
ORGANIZATIONS (77%); JUDICIAL REVIEW (76%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (75%);
DECISIONS & RULINGS (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS
(71%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (71%); LABOR FORCE (64%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              76 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 27, 1982, Friday, Late City Final Edition

Guerrilla War on Immigration

SECTION: Section A; Page 22, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 522 words


Any doubt about how deeply the subject of immigration cuts across party and
philosophical lines should be erased by a small example of guerrilla warfare in
Washington. The immediate flap is finished, but the larger issue remains in
suspense, waiting for the House to settle in September.

The flap arose out of a startling New York Times interview Tuesday with Annelise
Anderson, associate director of the Office of Management and Budget. The
Administration, she said, vehemently opposes part of the Simpson-Mazzoli
immigration bill, passed by the Senate Aug. 17.

The section in question requires development of an identification system to
screen out illegal aliens looking for work in this country. Any such
requirement, she said, is ''typical of totalitarian societies.'' Government
would be tempted to turn it to other purposes, like enforcing draft registration
and quelling riots.

There's nothing startling about such views. We, and others, believe such a
system can be controlled, but more than one civil libertarian - or just plain
libertarian - fears a tumble down the slippery slope. What was arresting about
Mrs. Anderson's hostility was that it so baldly contradicted official
Administration views.

In May, for instance, Attorney General Smith said the Reagan Administration was
''open to the alternative'' of a national identity card. Just 10 days ago, when
the Senate passed the Simpson-Mazzoli bill, he said, ''The Administration
applauds the his-toric Senate action and urges the House to act swiftly, in the
same spirit of reason and reform.'' The Administration yesterday issued a
welcome statement clearly dissociating itself from Mrs. Anderson's views. Its
position on verification, however, remains complex, reflecting sharp differences
not only within the Administration but in society.

Any sensible immigration reform requires a verification system. The best way to
deter illegal immigrants is to make it harder for them to get the jobs that lure
them. The best way to do that, in turn, is to make it illegal for employers to
hire them. Employers can do that only if they know who is illegal. Verification,
however, is opposed by such divergent bodies as the U.S. Chamber of Commerce,
which fears red tape for employers, and the Mexican-American Legal Defense Fund,
which fears discrimination against Hispanics.

So it's hardly surprising that the Simpson-Mazzoli bill ended up bland on the
subject. It does not require a verification system now but merely directs the
President to install one within three years.  The Administration is even more
timid. It denies, in advance, that anything more than present identification
procedures will ever be needed.

There's no reason for the House to be more timid than the Senate.  Without
effective verification, there can be no effective enforcement of the borders.
Without effective enforcement, there can be no immigration reform worthy of the
name. The choice for the House is clear: legislate or pretend.

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%);

COMPANY: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET  (57%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET
(57%);

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET  (57%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT &
BUDGET (57%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES  UNITED STATES (94%);

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION; ILLEGAL ALIENS
IMMIGRATION (92%); LEGISLATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS &
OPINIONS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (89%);
POLITICS (89%); IMMIGRATION LAW (89%); LEGISLATORS (78%); NATIONAL IDENTITY
CARDS (78%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); GOVERNMENT
BUDGETS (78%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (76%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (76%); INTERVIEWS
(76%); EMPLOYMENT (76%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (74%); BUDGETS
(73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); DISCRIMINATION (71%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); JUSTICE
DEPARTMENTS (69%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              77 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               August 26, 1982, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

I.D. PLAN OPPOSED BY ADMINISTRATION

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 28, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 929 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 25


A Federal official said today that the Reagan Administration was vehemently
opposed to a section of the Senate-approved immigration bill that requires the
President to devise a system for verifying the identity of all job applicants,
including United States citizens.

The system would be aimed at permitting employers to distinguish illegal aliens
from citizens and aliens authorized to work in this country. Under the bill, an
employer who knowingly hired illegal aliens would be subject to a civil fine of
up to $2,000 for each illegal alien. If there was a ''pattern or practice'' of
violations, the employer could also be imprisoned for six months.

Annelise G. Anderson, associate director of the Office of Management and Budget,
said that the Administration opposed the Senate bill's provision for an
identification system. The bill says that within three years the President must
''establish a secure system to determine employment eligibility in the United
States.''

''The legislation says the system can be used only for worker identification
purposes,'' Mrs. Anderson said in an interview. ''But the temptations to use it
for other purposes in emergencies are extraordinary.''

Uses by Police Are Feared

Despite the safeguards, she said, officials may be tempted to use the system to
enforce draft registration laws, to combat drug trafficking, to quell a riot or
to investigate airport bombings.

Mrs. Anderson said the establishment of an employment eligibility system and its
misuse were ''typical of totalitarian societies.'' ''One of the things that a
totalitarian society can't abide is not being able to control the movement of
people,'' she said. ''If you want to maintain a free society, you have to
tolerate a little bit of slack in your ability to fully enforce the law. If you
have everybody identified, you can stop people on the street to see if they have
registered for the draft. If you have no I.D., you have no way to find these
people.''

Senator Alan K. Simpson, Republican of Wyoming and the chief sponsor of the
Senate bill, tried to take account of such arguments in his bill. He inserted
provisions ''to minimize the risk of undue invasion of privacy and the risk of
Government abuse.''

''There is no 'slippery slope' toward loss of liberties,'' Mr.  Simpson said in
the Senate, ''only a long staircase where each step downward must be first
tolerated by the American people and their leaders.''

House Has Similar Bill

The Senate passed the Simpson bill last week by a vote of 81 to 18. The House
Judiciary Committee plans to take up a similar bill on Sept. 14. Supporters of
the House bill hope to complete floor action before Oct. 8, the target date for
adjournment. The House is not scheduled to convene again before Election Day,
Nov. 2, but there has been talk of a lame-duck session after the Congressional
elections.

The Senate and House bills both provide that for three years employers could
rely on the best existing documents to check the eligibility of job applicants.
The documents include passports, Social Security cards, birth certificates and
drivers' licenses.

The ''secure system'' would be introduced after three years. The Senate bill
says the system must be designed so it ''will reliably determine that a person
with the identity claimed by an employee or prospective employee is eligible to
work, and that the employee or prospective employee is not claiming the identity
of another individual.''

It also says, ''If the system requires an examination by an employer of any
document, such document must be in a form which is resistant to counterfeiting
and tampering.''

Called Too Expensive

Mrs. Anderson said it would be ''extraordinarily expensive'' to devise a system
to meet the rigorous requirements of the Senate bill, which authorizes $10
million to begin developing it.

Mrs. Anderson said the total cost, spread over several years, might exceed $1.5
billion. The basis for that figure, she said, is that there are more than 100
million people in the civilian labor force and the cost of producing each secure
document, such as a passport, is about $15.

Senator Simpson acknowledged that the costs could be substantial, but he said
there were also ''tremendous costs'' to society from inadequate enforcement of
the immigration laws.

Attorney General William French Smith said it was ''inappropriate'' for Congress
to presume that particular changes would have to be made in the existing
documents. Some changes may be necessary, he said, but ''that remains to be
assessed.''

Cards Common in Europe

Identity cards have long been common in parts of Europe. France, West Germany,
Belgium and Italy have such cards. In this country, Federal agencies and
advisory committees have repeatedly studied the idea of a national
identification system, and they have generally discouraged the idea.

The Social Security Administration said this month that in an effort to
frustrate counterfeiters, it would start issuing Social Security cards on
bank-note paper next year. Senate aides said they doubted that such cards could
satisfy the Simpson bill's requirements for a secure system.

The Senate bill does not specify whether the President should use identification
cards, a computerized data bank or some other device.

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%);

COMPANY: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET  (56%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET
(56%);

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET  (56%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT &
BUDGET (56%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES  UNITED STATES (96%);

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION; PRESIDENTS AND
PRESIDENCY (US); UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; LABOR; ILLEGAL ALIENS;
FINES (PENALTIES)  IMMIGRATION (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ILLEGAL
IMMIGRANTS (90%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US PRESIDENTS
(90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATORS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY
(78%); POLITICS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); FINES &
PENALTIES (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); CONTROLLED
SUBSTANCES CRIME (72%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (70%); BUDGETS (69%); BOMBINGS (65%);
DRUG TRAFFICKING (50%);

PERSON: ALAN K SIMPSON (67%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              78 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               August 24, 1982, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

TWO DEFECTIVE IMMIGRATION REFORM PROPOSALS

SECTION: Section A; Page 18, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 631 words


To the Editor:

Your Aug. 19 editorial on the Immigration Reform and Control Act correctly calls
for several essential modifications to the legislation that recently passed the
Senate.

As you note, I have long supported and the House has twice approved legislation
to penalize employers who knowingly hire illegal aliens.  In addition, in 1975 I
sponsored, and the full Judiciary Committee approved as a part of another
employer-sanctions proposal, a provision which would have legalized a
substantial number of undocumented aliens.

Regrettably, none of these proposals were enacted into law, and we are today
suffering from a decade of inaction on this serious national problem.

I certainly do not intend to stand in the way of legislation designed to address
that problem meaningfully. However, I firmly believe that any such legislation
must preserve the historic goals of our immigration law -the reunification of
families and the protection of American labor.

In my judgment, the proposal that was passed by the Senate and the one that is
now pending before my Committee on the Judiciary do not adequately protect these
objectives.

I believe that the process governing legal immigration has worked reasonably
well under the landmark 1965 law, which repealed the discriminatory
national-origin system of immigration. The most urgent problem confronting this
nation is illegal immigration, and that should be the primary subject addressed
by this legislation.

I am opposed to any effort to erode the concept of family reunification -be it
the elimination of the preference accorded to brothers and sisters of U.S.
citizens or the imposition of numerical limits on the spouses and children of
citizens. Political expediency or the short-term desire to restrict immigration
should not obscure the time-tested principles of our immigration laws and
policies.

I commend you for recommending a simple and straightforward legalization
program. I certainly agree that the creation of separate and distinct categories
of legalized aliens will be unworkable and counterproductive. We must design a
fair and understandable program that will encourage the participation of the
vast majority of illegal aliens. The Senate bill does not accomplish this
objective. I intend to recommend a more generous and workable legalization
program and will offer such an amendment when this bill is considered by the
full Judiciary Committee.

Another ''area for improvement,'' not mentioned in your editorial, relates to
the lack of judicial review provided under both proposals to aliens seeking
asylum. This is of deep concern to many civil libertarians and religious
organizations, and I am hopeful that a more reasonable approach to this most
difficult problem can be developed.

Finally, neither bill adequately protects the domestic labor market from the
importation of foreign workers. This is especially important when you consider
that unemployment has reached record levels. I am reviewing these provisions and
will endeavor to assure that the American work force is not adversely affected
by the legislation ultimately reported by the Judiciary Committee.

My deep interest in immigration legislation has spanned my entire career in the
Congress. It is also an issue of great importance to the American people. I
certainly share the view that reform is essential at this time.

However, the current fears and frustrations of the American people stemming from
recent events such as the Cuban boatlift, the largescale admission of
Indochinese refugees and the influx of Haitians claiming asylum should not be
allowed to obscure the need for a fair, generous and balanced immigration
policy.  (Rep.)
PETER W. RODINO JR., Chairman, House Judiciary Committee, Washington, Aug. 19,
1982

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES  UNITED STATES (94%);

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION  LEGISLATION (94%);
IMMIGRATION (92%); IMMIGRATION LAW (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ILLEGAL
IMMIGRANTS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); FOREIGN LABOR (89%); LEGISLATORS
(89%); DECRIMINALIZATION (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); APPROVALS (78%); LABOR
FORCE (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); JUDICIAL REVIEW (73%); POLITICAL ASYLUM
(73%); CHILDREN (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (60%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%);
RELIGION (50%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              79 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               August 24, 1982, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

TWO DEFECTIVE IMMIGRATION REFORM PROPOSALS

SECTION: Section A; Page 18, Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 381 words


To the Editor:

In an earlier editorial on the subject (March 18), The Times characterized the
proposed Immigration Reform and Control Act as ''Not Racist, Not Nativist, Not
Mean.'' Senate action on the bill last week suggests that the intended product
of the majority of the Senate certainly leans in that direction.

In an 84-to-16 vote, for example, the Senate approved an Administration-inspired
compromise on legalization which not only rolls back the cutoff dates from 1982
to 1980 but bars newly legalized aliens from obtaining even emergency medical
attention at public expense.

Little more than a month ago, Msgr. Daniel Hoye, general secretary of the United
States Catholic Conference, expressed reluctant support for the bill on the
basis that, even if it wasn't perfect, it would legalize a large number of
undocumented aliens who had arrived as recently as the end of 1981.

The January 1982 cutoff, presented by Senator Kennedy, was sound in that it
recognized the need to clear the docket and to include recent immigrants from
war-torn Central America. Now, over a million people who arrived in 1980 and
1981 are lost to the flotsam of underground society, fearful of exercising
rights we deem the cornerstone of our democracy.

Equally disturbing is the mean-spiritedness displayed in the legalized program
approved. Notwithstanding the fact that undocumented workers are estimated by
the General Accounting Office to contribute over $5 billion in taxes annually,
the 84 senators who voted for the measure were willing to begrudge the legalized
alien roughly $120 million in public assistance which they might utilize under
the pressure of personal emergencies.

This is to say nothing, of course, of the rejection of Senator Kennedy's pleas
to include unmarried sons and daughters of a legal immigrant among admittable
aliens. Here the contention that the bill is not nativist falls flat on its
face.

For a good number of ethnic groups in the United States, the family network that
sustains values is larger than the nuclear family. The bill in effect refuses to
recognize this.
MARIO J. PAREDES, New York, Aug. 17, 1982

The writer is executive director of Northeast Catholic Center for Hispanics, an
affiliate of the National Conference of Catholic Bishops.

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%);

COMPANY: UNITED STATES CATHOLIC CONFERENCE  (56%); UNITED STATES CATHOLIC
CONFERENCE (56%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE  (54%); US GOVERNMENT
ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (54%);

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES CATHOLIC CONFERENCE  (56%); UNITED STATES CATHOLIC
CONFERENCE (56%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE  (54%); US GOVERNMENT
ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (54%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES  UNITED STATES (93%);

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION  IMMIGRATION (93%);
LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%);
LEGISLATION (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (87%); ETHNIC GROUPS (78%); ILLEGAL
IMMIGRANTS (78%); APPROVALS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); CATHOLICS &
CATHOLICISM (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); FOREIGN LABOR (73%); PUBLIC
FINANCE (72%); FAMILY (69%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (61%); ETHNICITY (50%);

PERSON: TED KENNEDY (83%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              80 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               August 24, 1982, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

IMMIGRANTS AND THE NEW BILL

BYLINE: By Gary Hart

SECTION: Section A; Page 19, Column 3; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 803 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The legislation overhauling United States immigration law that the Senate has
approved focuses almost entirely on domestic issues - stricter law-enforcement,
lower quotas, regularizing the status of undocumented workers already in this
country. But the Senate has not fully addressed the problem that brings
thousands of immigrants to our shores each year.

Immigration is not merely a domestic issue. It is also a matter of foreign
policy. So even the strictest enforcement of the various elements of the Senate
bill, which has been sent to the House, would have little long-term effect.
Quite simply, these provisions do nothing to address the root causes of
migration and the flow of refugees: economic underdevelopment, social injustice,
human rights violations, populatign growth. Until our immigration debate
addresses these serious international issues, we will never develop an adequate
immigration policy.

The Haitian refugees detained in United States camps vividly illustrate this
point. Although they cannot possibly think they have entered the ''golden door''
of economic and social opportunity, they continue to come. Life in the camps,
with all its hardships, is obviously preferable to a life where social and
economic opportunity are systematically denied.

There are enormous disparities between rich and poor in Haiti.  Five percent of
the population accumulates 50 percent of the national income. In 1980 (the last
year for which data are available), Haiti's average per capita income was $275,
the lowest in the Western Hemisphere. On the average, the Haitian Government
spends $1 per person per year on education; it spends $18 per person per year on
internal security.

According to the Organization of American States, corruption pervades all levels
of Haitian government. As a result, domestic revenues and foreign aid are
diverted for personal enrichment, rather than being spent on economic
development.

Repression has been a fact of life in Haiti since 1957, when Francois ''Papa
Doc'' Duvalier began his brutal regime. His successor and son, Jean-Claude
''Baby Doc'' Duvalier, has continued the tradition. The result has been a flood
of poor, uneducated ''boat people'' to the United States.

Haiti is by no means alone in contributing immigrants. From March 1979 to March
1981, the number of Central Americans and South Americans in the United States
increased from roughly 840,000 to 1.022 million. In the last 18 months alone,
200,000 Salvadorans have fled to the United States. And in Southeast Asia,
intolerable conditions have brought hundreds of thousands of Indochinese to the
United States.

It is unrealistic to think that these trends will not continue.Unprecedented
population growth has contributed to tension not only in Mexico, the Caribbean
basin and Central America, but also in the Middle East and the Far East.

Entrants into the labor force in the nonindustrialized world are expected to
grow by at least 700 million in the next 20 years.  Moreover, migration from
rural areas to already overburdened cities will increase. Add continuing civil
and regional wars, famine and repression, and migration flow will become a
migration flood.

Limiting our changes in immigration policy to domestic measures will thus have
little impact on migration pressures from troubled areas of the world.
Ultimately, our immigration problems must be managed with the cooperation and
participation of other governments.  The immigration factor must become an
integral part of the formulation of our foreign policy, particularly as it
applies to certain areas of the globe. For example, we need to recognize that
our tacit support of the repressive Duvalier regime will be paid for in an
influx of ''boat people'' to this country.

Policies that favor confrontation and military solutions must be avoided in
dealing with Central American countries since such policies add to emigration
pressures.

Trade and investment incentives for Mexico and the Caribbean basin should take
into account their impact on the creation of jobs and demographic movements. For
example, Washington might consider providing incentives to United States and
Mexican firms willing to locate in northern Mexico in return for Mexican
Government assistance in blocking illegal immigration.

Both bilateral and multilateral assistance can, if properly directed, help
create jobs and slow population growth in various countries around the world.

Regardless of good-faith legislative efforts to reform domestic immigration
procedures, the problems presented by immigration in the 1980's and 1990's will
not be solved without a more democratic, imaginative and far-sighted foreign
policy.
---------------------------------------------------------------------
Gary Hart, Democrat, is senior Senator from Colorado.

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); HAITI (94%); CENTRAL AMERICA (92%); CARIBBEAN
ISLANDS (79%); ASIA (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN
ASIA (79%);

COMPANY: FAR EAST MOTORS (50%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES  UNITED STATES (98%); HAITI (94%); CENTRAL AMERICA
(92%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); ASIA (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); MIDDLE EAST
(79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%);

SUBJECT: LAW AND LEGISLATION; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; REFUGEES AND
EXPATRIATES; UNITED STATE INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS  IMMIGRATION (96%);
IMMIGRATION LAW (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%);
FOREIGN LABOR (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (90%);
LEGISLATION (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); REFUGEES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS
(90%); APPROVALS (89%); TRENDS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); LEGISLATORS (78%);
LABOR FORCE (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%);
POPULATION GROWTH (74%); HUMAN RIGHTS (74%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (74%);
FOREIGN POLICY (71%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (65%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: drawing

TYPE: OP-ED

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              81 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 22, 1982, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

Votes in Congress;
Last Week's Tally in Key Eastern States

SECTION: Section 1; Part 2; Page 48, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 676 words


Senate

1. Bill to revise United States immigration laws, including a new system of
fines and prison terms for employers who knowingly hire illegal aliens. Passed,
80 to 19, Aug. 17.

2. Bill to cut spending by $13.3 billion, including a reduction in
cost-of-living adjustment for retired Federal employees under the age of 62, a
$1.9 billion cut in food stamps and a two-year freeze in dairy supports. Passed,
67 to 32, Aug. 18.

3. Bill raising taxes by $98.3 billion over the next three years.  Passed, 52 to
47, Aug. 19.
                           1   2   3
NEW YORK
D'Amato (R)                Y   Y   Y
Moynihan (D)               Y   N   N

NEW JERSEY
Bradley (D)                Y   Y   Y
Brady (R)                  Y   Y   Y

CONNECTICUT
Dodd (D)                   Y   N   Y
Weicker (R)                Y   N   N

MASSACHUSETTS
Kennedy (D)                N   N   Y
Tsongas (D)                Y   N   Y

PENNSYLVANIA
Heinz (R)                  Y   Y   Y
Specter (R)                Y   Y   Y

MARYLAND
Mathias (R)                Y   N   Y
Sarbanes (D)               Y   N   N

VIRGINIA
Byrd (I)                   Y   Y   N
Warner (R)                 Y   Y   N


House

1. Bill to cut spending by $13.3 billion (identical with House version). Passed,
243 to 176, Aug. 18.

2. Bill raising taxes by $98.3 billion over the next three years (identical with
House version). Passed 226 to 207, Aug. 19.
                           1   2
NEW YORK
 1. Carney (R)             Y   N
 2. Downey (D)             N   Y
 3. Carman (R)             Y   Y
 4. Lent (R)               N   Y
 5.  McGrath (R)           N   N
 6. Leboutillier (R)       Y   N
 7. Addabbo (D)            N   N
 8. Rosenthal (D)          A   Y
 9. Ferraro (D)            N   N
10. Biaggi (D)             N   Y
11. Scheuer (D)            N   A
12.  Chisholm (D)          N   N
13. Solarz (D)             N   Y
14. Richmond (D)           N   Y
15. Zeferetti (D)          N   N
16. Schumer (D)            N   Y
17. Molinari (R)           N   N
18. Green (R)              N   Y
19. Rangel (D)             N   Y
20. Weiss (D)              N   Y
21. Garcia (D)             N   N
22. Bingham (D)            Y   Y
23. Peyser (D)             N   N
24. Ottinger (D)           N   N
25. Fish (R)               N   Y
26. Gilman (R)             N   N
27. McHugh (D)             N   Y
28. Stratton (D)           Y   N
29. Solomon (R)            Y   N
30. Martin (R)             Y   Y
31. Mitchell (R)           N   Y
32. Wortley (R)            Y   N
33. Lee (R)                Y   N
34. Horton (R)             N   Y
35.  Conable (R)           Y   Y
36. LaFalce (D)            N   Y
37. Nowak (D)              N   Y
38. Kemp (R)               Y   N
39.  Lundine (D)           Y   N

NEW JERSEY
 1. Florio (D)             N   N
 2. Hughes (D)             N   Y
 3. Howard (D)             N   N
 4. Smith (R)              N   N
 5.  Fenwick (R)           Y   Y
 6. Forsythe (R)           Y   Y
 7. Roukema (R)            Y   Y
 8. Roe (D)                N   N
 9.Hollenbeck (R)          N   Y
10. Rodino (D)             N   Y
11. Minish (D)             N   N
12. Rinaldo (R)            N   N
13. Courter (R)            Y   Y
14. Guarini (D)            N   Y
15. Dwyer (D)              N   Y

CONNECTICUT
 1. Kennelly (D)           N   Y
 2. Gejdenson (D)          N   Y
 3. DeNardis (R)           Y   Y
 4. McKinney (R)           Y   Y
 5. Ratchford (D)          N   N
 6. Moffett (D)            A   Y

MASSACHUSETTS
 1. Conte (R)              N   Y
 2. Boland (D)             Y   Y
 3. Early (D)              Y   Y
 4. Frank (D)              N   N
 5.  Shannon (D)           N   Y
 6. Mavroules (D)          N   N
 7. Markey (D)             N   Y
 8. O'Neill (D)
 9.  Moakley (D)           Y   Y
10. Heckler (R)            N   N
11. Donnelly (D)           Y   Y
12. Studds (D)             N   N

PENNSYLVANIA
 1. Foglietta (D)          N   Y
 2. Gray (D)               N   N
 3. Smith (D)              Y   Y
 4. Dougherty (R)          N   Y
 5. Schulze (R)            Y   N
 6. Yatron (D)             N   N
 7. Edgar (D)              N   Y
 8. Coyne, J. (R)          N   N
 9.  Shuster (R)           Y   N
10. McDade (R)             N   Y
11. Nelligan (R)           N   Y
12. Murtha (D)             Y   Y
13. Coughlin (R)           Y   Y
14. Coyne, W. (D)          Y   Y
15. Ritter (R)             Y   N
16. Walker (R)             Y   N
17. Ertel (D)              N   Y
18. Walgren (D)            Y   N
19. Goodling (R)           Y   Y
20. Gaydos (D)             N   N
21. Bailey (D)             N   N
22. Murphy (D)             N   N
23. Clinger (R)            Y   Y
24. Marks (R)              Y   Y
25. Atkinson (D)           N   Y

MARYLAND
 1. Dyson (D)              N   N
 2. Long (D)               Y   Y
 3. Mikulski (D)           N   N
 4. Holt (R)               A   Y
 5. Hoyer (D)              N   N
 6. Byron (D)              N   Y
 7. Mitchell (D)           N   N
 8. Barnes (D)             N   N

VIRGINIA
 1. Trible (R)             Y   N
 2. Whitehurst (R)         Y   Y
 3. Bliley (R)             Y   N
 4. R.Daniel (R)           Y   N
 5. D.Daniel (D)           Y   N
 6. Butler (R)             Y   Y
 7. Robinson (R)           Y   N
 8. Parris (R)             N   N
 9. Wampler (R)            Y   N
10. Wolf (R)               N   N

KEY
Y - ''yea'';
N - ''nay'';
A - absent or did not vote.

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%);

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%);

CITY: RICHMOND, VA, USA (79%);

COMPANY: CONGRESS (US)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESS (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EASTERN STATES (US)  UNITED STATES (93%);   VIRGINIA, USA (79%);
CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%);   RICHMOND, VA, USA (79%);

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT  LEGISLATIVE BODIES
(91%); FOREIGN LABOR (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); ELECTIONS
(79%); IMMIGRATION (78%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%);

 POLITICS (74%); CRIMINAL FINES (73%); COST OF LIVING (72%);

PERSON: ARLEN SPECTER (54%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: list

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              82 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 22, 1982, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

The Nation in Summary;
SEnate Passes Immigration Law Changes

BYLINE: By Michael Wright, Carlyle C. Douglas and Caroline Rand Herron

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4, Column 3; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 392 words


Amid rising concern over strangers at the gates, the Senate last week approved
one of the most significant revisions of immigration law in 30 years. The
measure would grant amnesty to millions who entered the country illegally before
1980, but was aimed at reducing the number who slip across the border in the
future, largely by punishing those who hire them.

The bill, sponsored by Republican Senator Alan K. Simpson of Wyoming, won broad
support in the Senate - the vote was 81 to 18 - and Attorney General William
French Smith urged the House to ''act swiftly in the same spirit of reason and
reform.'' However, there was some question whether the House would have time
this year, barring a post-election session.

Representative Peter W. Rodino, chairman of the Judiciary Committee, is known to
favor penalizing those who knowingly employ illegal aliens - the measure calls
for fines of up to $2,000 per illegal worker and jail sentences for repeat
offenders. However, aides said he would seek to change some other provisions of
the bill when his committee takes it up after Labor Day. At the very least, the
New Jersey Democrat is expected to try to kill a section that would eliminate
the immigration preference now given to the alien siblings of American citizens.

The bill's other main provisions include an annual immigration limit of 425,000,
not counting refugees, with no more than 20,000 coming from any country other
than Canada and Mexico, which would be allowed 40,000 each; a requirement that
all job applicants prove they are either citizens or authorized aliens; and a
requirement that the President establish within three years a ''a secure system
to determine employment eligibiilty.'' The bill did not specify just what the
system must be, but some have interpreted it as a call for national identity
cards.

The chief opponent in the Senate was Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts, who
argued that in many ways the bill restricted immigration instead of reforming
it. He agreed with some Hispanic groups that opposed the measure on the ground
that its ''employer sanctions'' could result in increased discrimination against
Hispanic Americans.

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%);

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (50%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES  UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%);
NORTH AMERICA (79%);   NEW JERSEY, USA (50%);

SUBJECT: LAW AND LEGISLATION; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; ILLEGAL ALIENS
IMMIGRATION (93%); IMMIGRATION LAW (93%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ILLEGAL
IMMIGRANTS (90%); SMUGGLING (90%); FOREIGN LABOR (90%); AMNESTY (89%); NEWS
BRIEFS (79%); LEGISLATION (78%); LEGISLATORS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%);
REFUGEES (78%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (78%); APPROVALS (78%); FINES & PENALTIES
(76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); NATIONAL IDENTITY CARDS (73%); US LABOR DAY
(66%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (64%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (55%); SENTENCING (53%);
JAIL SENTENCING (53%);

PERSON: TED KENNEDY (53%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              83 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               August 21, 1982, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

ANSWERS TO QUIZ

SECTION: Section 1; Page 48, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 531 words


Questions appear on page 20.  1. Unlicensed productions of the show around the
country are using costumes and other elements of the New York production instead
of those that had been traditional.

2. False. Israel did not agree to withdraw its troops.  3. The bill is a
sweeping revision of the nation's immigration laws, including a new system of
fines and prison terms for employers who knowingly hire illegal aliens. The
amendment states that ''the English language is the official language of the
United States. The Senate approved both the bill and the amendment.

4. The Dow Jones industrial average climbed 38.81 points on Tuesday, the best
single-day advance in stock exchange history. On Wednesday, a record 132.7
million shares were traded.

5. The usual route of drugs from South America to the United States through
Florida has been blocked by Federal efforts.  6. Sheik Mohammed bid a record
$2.1 million against his brother, Sheik Maktoum, for a yearling filly at
Saratoga.  7. The suspect was apprehended in the Attorney General's residence.
Mr. Connolly, who was at home at the time of the arrest, left for the United
States the next day.

8. The Senate killed a proposed reduction in the tax deduction on
business-related meals. But they restored the proposal to tighten collection of
taxes on tips.

9. False.  10. Saturday Review.  11. The United States said it would gradually
reduce arms sales to Taiwan. China pledged to seek reunification with Taiwan by
peaceful means.

12. Natural.  13. His broadcast is carried on the Voice of America.  14. Players
in the National Football League, to demonstrate solidarity against the owners in
a contract dispute, defied the rules and shook hands before their exhibition
games.

15. Salvador Jorge Blanco, the President of the Dominican Republic, made the
remark in his inaugural address.  16. In contrast to 1970, when constituents
actually wrote personally to their Congressman, most of the mail now is
computerprinted.

17. President Reagan called Mr. Rather in the middle of the broadcast. Mr.
Rather then reported Mr. Reagan's remarks on the air.  18. True.  19. Moderately
priced.  20. Samuel K. Doe. Liberia.  21. The Minnesota Twins pitcher has lost
15 games at the start of his career, more than any other player in history.  22.
The Federal Home Loan Bank Board approved Citicorp's bid to acquire the Fidelity
Savings and Loan Association of San Francisco, the first time a commercial bank
is being permitted to cross state lines to acquire another banking institution
of any sort.

23. They have joined the International Brotherhood of Teamsters.

TICKER: C (NYSE) (51%); C (BMV) (51%); 8710 (TSE) (51%);

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE  (51%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD
ISSUING  (51%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING  (51%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES
BROKERAGE (51%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (51%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL
BANKING (51%);

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); TAIWAN (92%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); CHINA (79%);
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%);

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%);

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (51%);

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); TAIWAN (92%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); CHINA (79%);

 DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%);   NEW YORK, USA (92%);

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS  LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); BANKING
& FINANCE (89%); LEGISLATION (77%); FOREIGN LABOR (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT
(76%); IMMIGRATION LAW (76%); APPROVALS (75%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); STOCK
EXCHANGES (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); HORSES (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (72%);
IMMIGRATION (71%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (71%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (71%); JUSTICE
DEPARTMENTS (70%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (69%); BASEBALL (69%); SECURITIES
TRADING (69%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (67%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (65%); SAVINGS & LOANS
(64%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (60%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANKS (60%); MORTGAGE BANKING

 (60%); CRIMINAL FINES (56%);

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (52%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Question

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              84 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               August 19, 1982, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

Immigrants, History and the House

SECTION: Section A; Page 26, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 554 words


Will the 97th Congress be remembered for historic legislation, or merely
housekeeping? It has spent much of its time so far in heated battle over the
budget, spending cuts and a tax increase, important but largely year-to-year
concerns. Now that the Senate has overwhelmingly passed the big Simpson-Mazzoli
immigration reform bill, the House has a chance to do something worth
remembering years from now. But that means it must act quickly; there are fewer
than 20 legislative days remaining before adjournment.

What's historic about the bill is the principle. As the Rev.  Theodore
Hesburgh's immigration study commission said last year, the way to keep the
front door open is to close the back door. The nation wants and needs to unite
families, to bring in people with valued skills, to infuse the renewing spirit
of immigrant ambition and energy. But meanwhile, a continued flood of illegal
immigration taxes national patience to the point that some people are ready to
slam all the doors shut.

To its lasting credit, the Senate refused to reduce the amount of legal
immigration and endorsed a provision to keep illegal immigrants from coming in
the back door. The best way to do that is to take the pie off the kitchen table
- by eliminating the economic incentive to sneak into the country for jobs that
pay a fortune compared with what it's possible to earn back home.

Thus the Simpson-Mazzoli bill calls for ''employer sanctions,'' forbidding
employers for the first time to hire illegals. While that is a landmark, the
Senate bill is far from perfect. It creates two prob-lems in particular for the
House to address. One is that Hispanic-American organizations fear employer
sanctions. They suspect that many employers will refuse to hire anyone who even
looks Hispanic, legal or not, rather than risk tangling with new law. It is a
reasonable fear, which Senator Kennedy tried to meet without success in the
Senate.

What would be the harm of having an agency like the General Accounting Office or
the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission investigate possible discriminatory
effects and make periodic reports? Some such procedure would not eliminate
Hispanic concerns, but simple respect should make the House glad to allay them.

The second area for improvement is amnesty for illegal aliens who have been here
for years, living under a cloud and vulnerable to exploitation. A one-time
amnesty is the humane way to clear the decks, but the version finally patched
together by the Senate is an administrative monstrosity. It would create three
different categories of illegals, each accorded a different status and each
given different rights to public benefits. The House would serve both clarity
and charity by insisting on something simpler.

With the session draining away so fast, can the House act in time?  The fate of
immigration reform now depends on Peter Rodino, the canny New Jersey Democrat
who heads the House Judiciary Committee. He's the same Peter Rodino who pushed
employer sanctions through the House twice, in 1972 and 1973, only to see them
die in the Senate. This time the Senate is committed first. History waits.

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES  UNITED STATES (93%);

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; ILLEGAL ALIENS; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB
MARKET; LAW AND LEGISLATION  IMMIGRATION (95%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%);
ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); LEGISLATION
(90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%);
IMMIGRATION LAW (89%); EMPLOYMENT (87%); AMNESTY (87%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%);
LEGISLATORS (78%); BUDGET CUTS (77%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (77%);
FOREIGN LABOR (76%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (76%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (70%);
INVESTIGATIONS (60%);

PERSON: TED KENNEDY (52%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              85 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              August 18, 1982, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

SENATE VOTES A SWEEPING REVISION OF THE NATION'S IMMIGRATION LAWS

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 1289 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 17


The Senate today approved a sweeping revision of the nation's immigration laws,
including a new system of fines and prison terms for employers who knowingly
hire illegal aliens.

The vote was 81 to 18, reflecting broad bipartisan support for the measure
despite opposition to some sections by Hispanic and business organizations.

The bill goes now to the House, where a subcommittee of the Judiciary Committee
has approved a similar measure. Aides to Representative Peter W. Rodino Jr., the
committee chairman, said that he would not stand in the way of prompt floor
action on the issue but that he wanted substantial changes in the Senate bill.

Attorney General Applauds Vote

Mr. Rodino, a New Jersey Democrat, said that the Judiciary Committee would take
up immigration proposals soon after it returns from the Labor Day recess in
September.

Attorney General William French Smith issued a statement today applauding ''the
historic Senate action'' and urging the House to ''act swiftly in the same
spirit of reason and reform.'' He said the Senate bill would ''enable the
Government at long last to sharply curtail the large number of illegal aliens
coming to this country.''

The bill, sponsored by Senator Alan K. Simpson, Republican of Wyoming, would
offer amnesty to millions of illegal aliens who entered the United States before
Jan. 1, 1980. For the first time, all job applicants would be required to show
identification papers to prospective employers to prove that they were either
citizens or aliens authorized to work in the United States.

The Simpson bill, if enacted, would make the most profound change in immigration
law since 1952, when the McCarran-Walter Act established the basic rules for
admitting and excluding aliens. That act abolished race as an overall barrier to
immigration but kept particular forms of national bias that favored European
immigrants.  The act was amended in 1965, abolishing the national origins quota
system.

Senate action on the Simpson bill coincides with growing public concern over
illegal immigration. The Government arrested more than 950,000 illegal aliens
last year. Together, legal and illegal immigration now appear to account for 30
to 50 percent of the nation's annual population growth. In 1980, an exceptional
year, more than 800,000 aliens arrived in the United States, including 135,000
Cubans and Haitians.

The Senate bill sets an annual limit of 425,000 new immigrants, not counting
refugees. That is approximately the current level, although in some years the
total has been higher. Under the bill, no more than 20,000 immigrants could come
from any one country except Mexico and Canada, which would be subject to a
ceiling of 40,000 each. Canada's unusued visa numbers would be available to
Mexico, which could, as a result, send 50,000 to 60,000 immigrants a year,
according to current estimates. Mexico is now limited to 20,000.

The bill would eliminate the fifth visa preference, which permits immigration by
aliens who are brothers or sisters of American citizens. Mr. Rodino opposes this
change; Senator Simpson says he is willing to ''make some adjustment'' in the
Senate provision.

English as the Official Language

Before final passage, the Senate today adopted, 78 to 21, an amendment declaring
''the sense of the Congress that the English language is the official language
of the United States.'' The amendment was offered by Senator S.I. Hayakawa, a
California Republican regarded as one of the world's leading authorities on
semantics, who asserted that the amendment would ''do away with the bilingual
ballot'' now required in some counties by the Voting Rights Act of 1965.

''The fact that we have a common language, one language, is one of the most
important things we have tying us together,'' Senator Hayakawa said.

Asserting that ''we live in a time of unprecedented immigration,'' he said it
was essential that immigrants from different cultures communicate in the same
language, and added: ''Somehow or other, within a generation or two, we have to
get them all together, talking to each other, electing each other to city
councils, doing business with each other, buying and selling from each other,
creating governments, creating societies.''

However, attorneys for the Justice Department and several Congressional
committees disagreed with Senator Hayakawa's contention that the amendment would
abolish the bilingual ballot and said a sense-of-the-Congress declaration was
not sufficient to override existing law.

The six Senators from New York, New Jersey and Connecticut voted for the bill.
The opposition came mainly from conservatives opposed to further Government
burdens on business, liberals concerned about infringement of privacy and
possible discrimination, and senators from states with large Hispanic
populations.

Kennedy Opposes Measure

Senator Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts, the chief Democratic strategist on
the immigration bill, voted against it even though he had worked closely with
Senator Simpson on the legislation for 18 months.

''What started out to be immigration reform has become, in too many provisions,
immigration restriction,'' Senator Kennedy said, adding that the bill eroded the
principle of family reunification, long a basic goal of immigration policy, and
created ''employer sanctions'' that could result in more discrimination against
Hispanic Americans.

Under the bill, an employer who hired illegal aliens would be subject to a
penalty of $1,000 for each alien on the first violation and $2,000 for each
alien in subsequent violations. Where there was a ''pattern or practice'' of
violations, the employer could also be imprisoned for six months.

An employer with four or more employees would be required to check the identity
of a job applicant by examining either a United States passport or two other
documents, such as a Social Security card and a driver's license. Newly hired
employees would have to certify, ''under penalty of perjury and on a form
established by the Attorney General,'' that they were either citizens or aliens
authorized to work in this country.

Amnesty for Some Aliens

Employers who failed to comply with these requirements would be subject to a
civil penalty of $500 for each violation.  The bill also says that within three
years the President must ''establish a secure system to determine employment
eligibility.'' It does not specify whether the system should use a new type of
Social Security card, a computerized data bank or some other device.

The amnesty program under the Senate bill would grant permanent resident status
to illegal aliens who entered the United States before Jan. 1, 1977, and had
resided here continuously since then.  It would grant ''temporary resident''
status to those who entered the United States from Jan. 1, 1977, to the end of
1979. Temporary residents, after three years in that status, could become
permanent residents. Aliens can apply for citizenship after five years as
permanent residents.

Aliens who have entered the country since Jan. 1, 1980, would not be eligible
for the amnesty and could be deported if they were caught. Aliens who accepted
the amnesty offer would be ineligible for at least three years to receive
Medicaid, food stamps and other social welfare benefits financed by the Federal
Government.

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); MEXICO (93%); CANADA (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES  UNITED STATES (96%); MEXICO (93%); CANADA (92%);
NORTH AMERICA (79%);

SUBJECT: LAW AND LEGISLATION; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; ILLEGAL ALIENS; FINES
(PENALTIES); HIRING AND PROMOTION; LABOR; ENGLISH LANGUAGE; LANGUAGE AND
LANGUAGES  ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (93%); IMMIGRATION LAW (93%); IMMIGRATION (92%);
FOREIGN LABOR (91%); APPROVALS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CRIMINAL FINES
(90%); LEGISLATION (90%); LEGISLATORS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); JUSTICE
DEPARTMENTS (74%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); POPULATION GROWTH (74%);
EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (73%); REFUGEES (73%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (73%); US LABOR
DAY (68%); AMNESTY (65%);

PERSON: WILLIAM FRENCH SMITH  (56%); ALAN K SIMPSON  (55%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              86 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              August 18, 1982, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

AROUND THE NATION;
Texas Concern Checked On Hiring of Taiwanese

BYLINE: UPI

SECTION: Section A; Page 18, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 106 words

DATELINE: CARROLLTON, Tex., Aug. 17


Immigration officials say they are investigating charges that a technology
manufacturing concern has illegally employed about 30 Taiwanese workers, mostly
engineers, in high-paying jobs.

''This is a formal investigation,'' said Travis Stewart, assistant director of
investigations in Dallas. ''We feel there is a possibility of some violations''
at the Mostek Corporation in suburban Carrollton.

The investigation is part of an effort by the Immigration and Naturalization
Service to remove aliens ''from good-paying jobs where citizens could be
employed.''

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%);

STATE: TEXAS, USA (93%);

CITY: DALLAS, TX, USA (92%);

COMPANY: IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE  (57%); IMMIGRATION &
NATURALIZATION SERVICE (57%);

ORGANIZATION: IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE  (57%); IMMIGRATION &
NATURALIZATION SERVICE (57%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;TEXAS; UNITED STATES; TAIWAN  UNITED STATES (93%);   TEXAS, USA
(93%);   DALLAS, TX, USA (92%);

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; ILLEGAL ALIENS; ENGINEERING AND ENGINEERS
INVESTIGATIONS (93%); IMMIGRATION (93%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); ENGINEERING
(88%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (86%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              87 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               August 17, 1982, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

ILLEGAL IMMIGRANT SOUGHT IN MOTEL SLAYING OF GUARD

BYLINE: By RALPH BLUMENTHAL

SECTION: Section B; Page 3, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 680 words


An illegal immigrant being held in a motel room near Kennedy International
Airport overnight until he could be put on the next flight home apparently
overpowered and strangled his unarmed private security guard early yesterday
morning and escaped in the guard's car, police and immigration officials said
yesterday.

They identified the immigrant as Ramon Cuevas, a 25-year-old Dominican national
who had been carrying a birth certificate falsely listing him under another name
as a citizen of Puerto Rico.

The guard, 36-year-old Jean Marcpenn of Siro Security Services of Brooklyn, was
discovered dead about 8:30 A.M. yesterday by a housekeeper at the Holiday Inn on
Rockaway Boulevard. He had been strangled with a telephone cord, the police
said.

Responsibility of Airline

The guard had been hired by American Airlines under longstanding Federal
aviation rules that require carriers to retain responsibility for incoming
passengers found ineligible for entry into the United States. The carrier then
sends the passenger home.

''This is the first case of murder,'' said Lieut. Martin Veilson of the 105th
Precinct in Queens. ''Usually they just leave and try to get in again.''

A spokesman for American Airlines in Dallas, David Fraley, said the carrier had
been trying for years to shed the liabilities of guarding illegal entrants.

''We would just as soon not have the responsibility,'' he said.  But the
Government takes the position that carriers are responsible for insuring that
their passengers are legally entitled to enter the country they are flying to,
and that if they are not, the airline must take them back where they came from.

Flew Here From Haiti

In an account later confirmed by James Jasey, New York deputy district director
of the Immigration and Naturalization Service, Lieutenant Veilson said Mr.
Cuevas had arrived about 5:30 P.M. Sunday on a flight from Haiti.

The officials said the arriving passenger had presented a birth certificate in
the name of Miguel Lopez Marquez of Carolina, P.R.  But, according to Lieutenant
Veilson, when an immigration agent asked the visitor how far Carolina was from
San Juan he incorrectly gave the distance as 100 miles when it is actually far
closer. At that point, the lieutenant said, the visitor gave his real name as
Ramon Cuevas of Santo Domingo and said he had obtained the paper from a friend
named Martinez in Haiti.

Mr. Jasey said Mr. Cuevas had been offered the chance to argue his case before a
judge, but had elected instead to leave the country. He was then turned over to
American Airlines for the next flight back, Mr. Jacey said.

Checked Into Motel

Because that was not until 7 A.M. yesterday, officials said, Mr.  Cuevas was put
in the custody of Mr. Marcpenn of the Siro agency, which the airline regularly
uses for security work. The men checked into the Holiday Inn just outside the
airport.

At 5 A.M., the police said, the Siro agency telephoned Mr. Marcpenn to check and
to remind him of the 7 A.M. flight. There was nothing then amiss, they said.

But sometime between then and 8:30 A.M., they said, a struggle broke out and the
guard was strangled. His body, clad in underwear, was found face down near the
door.

People who answered the telephone at the Siro agency refused to discuss the
case. The police had no explanation why Mr. Cuevas's failure to appear for the 7
A.M. flight had not immediately triggered an alarm.

The police described Mr. Cuevas as 5 feet 8 inches tall with medium dark skin, a
slight moustache and goatee. He was said to be wearing jeans and a light blue
polo shirt marked ''Property of Pittsburgh Steelers.''

The guard's missing car was identified as a 1974 light blue Plymouth four-door
with the license 2165 AFP.  The police asked that anyone with information call a
24-hour number - 520-9200 - and appealed for Mr. Cuevas to come forward.

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (83%);

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); HAITI (93%); PUERTO RICO (79%);

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%);

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%);

COMPANY: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC  (83%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (83%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES  UNITED STATES (94%); HAITI (93%); PUERTO RICO (79%);

   NEW YORK, USA (92%);   NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%);

SUBJECT: MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS; ILLEGAL ALIENS; IMMIGRATION AND
EMIGRATION; AIRLINES  IMMIGRATION (94%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (94%); AIRPORTS
(92%); AIRLINES (91%); IMMIGRATION LAW (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%);
MURDER (77%); AVIATION TRANSPORTATION LAW (73%); HOTEL HOUSEKEEPING (73%); HOTEL
STAFF (73%); TRANSPORTATION REGULATION (73%); JUDGES (60%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              88 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 16, 1982, Monday, Late City Final Edition

SOME HARD CHOICES EMERGE IN DEBATE ON ILLEGAL ALIENS

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 12, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1052 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 15


A new mood was evident in the Senate last week as members expressed a strong
desire to crack down on illegal immigration. At the same time, many Senators
expressed frustration as they suggested that there were no easy solutions, only
hard choices.

There seemed to be a consensus that the problem was serious enough to justify
imposing what one Senator called ''a new and controversial legal order.''

Under the bill being discussed, there would be a partial amnesty for some
illegal aliens already in the country, but for the first time, every job
applicant, whether a citizen or an alien, would have to show a prospective
employer documents to prove both his identity and his eligibility to work in the
United States.

Having finished two days of debate, the Senate plans to vote on the bill
Tuesday, and Senators on both sides of the aisle said they expected it to pass.
The House might find time to act on similar legislation this year, especially if
there is a session after the elections.

But aides to Representative Peter W. Rodino Jr., the Judiciary Committee
chairman, who has been deeply interested in immigration throughout his 34-year
career in Congress, said the New Jersey Democrat would insist on substantial
changes in the bill.

Pendulum Swings Again

Over the years, American immigration policy has swung between the extremes of
free, unlimited entry and tight restrictions, often based on geographic, racial
or ethnic quotas. In this time of fiscal stringency and political conservatism,
Congressional officials said the pendulum was swinging back toward restrictions,
despite a widespread desire to avoid discrimination.

In the debate, Senator Alan K. Simpson, Republican of Wyoming, chief sponsor of
the omnibus immigration bill, said that it ''truly is not nativist, not racist,
not mean,'' but he acknowledged that ''any reference to immigration reform or
control turns out, unfortunately, to be a code word for ethnic discrimination.''

At times the Senate debate on the bill was desultory, as many Senators were
distracted by conference committee work on taxes and the budget.

But often, debate was passionate, as a remarkable number of Senators spoke of
their own foreign roots and speculated about the impact of the new proposal. For
example, Pete V. Domenici, Republican of New Mexico, recalled that his parents
were immigrants and that his mother ''was an illegal alien for a long time and
did not even know that she was.''

'Secure System' of Identification

The bill provides that within three years, the President would have to establish
a ''secure system'' to verify ''employment eligibility.'' After a brief
transition period, there would be civil and criminal penalties for employers who
knowingly hired illegal aliens.

The bill would also permit millions of illegal aliens to become legal permanent
residents. But for at least three years after receiving amnesty, they could not
obtain food stamps, Medicaid or other federally financed benefits.

Immigration, like politics, appears to make strange bedfellows, with no clear
liberal or conservative position. Liberal Democratic Senators, such as Edward M.
Kennedy of Massachusetts and Alan Cranston of California, joined conservative
Republicans, such as John Tower of Texas and James A. McClure of Idaho, in
expressing concern about discrimination that might result from the new system of
employer sanctions, the very core of the Simpson bill.

Those Who 'Look Foreign'

Mr. Simpson replied that Hispanic Americans and those who ''look foreign'' could
suffer worse discrimination without the safeguards in his bill. And he said his
proposal had support from champions of civil rights such as the Rev. Theodore M.
Hesburgh, president of the University of Notre Dame, who was chairman of an
advisory commission on immigration in the Carter Administration.

Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato, Republican of New York, said with some irritation
that his parents could not have come to the United States under the policy
embodied in the Simpson bill. The bill, he said, gives a preference to
immigrants with $250,000 of capital to invest here, but eliminates the
preference for citizens' brothers and sisters. He also said he could not
understand why spouses and children of illegal aliens who receive amnesty under
the bill should be admitted in advance of the many brothers and sisters of
citizens who wanted to enter legally.

Senator Kennedy saw that issue as typical of the ''hard and difficult choices''
to be made, adding, ''That is a fine how-do-youdo for this nation.''

Senator Dale Bumpers, Democrat of Arkansas, said that the bill ''presents a real
dilemma,'' a ''conflict between our normal commitment to human rights, our
humanitarian instincts'' and ''our commitment to the first law of nature, which
is self-preservation.''

For the moment, the Senate seems willing to subordinate its humanitarian
instincts so the country can exercise what Mr. Simpson called ''the first and
most important duty of a sovereign nation,'' control over its borders.

Senator Simpson called his bill ''a very small step forward,'' but, according to
experts in the field, it represents the most profound change in immigration law
in the 30 years since the passage of the McCarran-Walter Immigration and
Nationality Act.

Some Unanswered Questions

As with any such departure from past practice, there are many unanswered
questions: How many illegal aliens would take advantage of the amnesty? How much
money would the Federal Government have to pay state governments to offset costs
attributable to the amnesty? What type of foolproof identification system would
the Government devise?  How many additional aliens would come into the United
States to harvest crops under the liberalized rules for foreign workers?

With legal and illegal immigration together accounting for perhaps 30 to 50
percent of the nation's annual population growth, the Senate seemed to be
inclined not to wait for answers.

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%);

STATE: NEW MEXICO, USA (79%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES  UNITED STATES (95%);   NEW MEXICO, USA (79%);

SUBJECT: LAW AND LEGISLATION; ILLEGAL ALIENS; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION
ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (93%); IMMIGRATION (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%);
LEGISLATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); IMMIGRATION LAW (89%); RACE &
RACISM (86%); ETHNIC GROUPS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CONFERENCES &
CONVENTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (77%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION
IN EMPLOYMENT (75%); AMNESTY (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); RACIAL
DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (74%); CONSERVATISM (72%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (70%);

 DISCRIMINATION (69%); BUDGETS (69%);

PERSON: PETE DOMENICI (52%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              89 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 16, 1982, Monday, Late City Final Edition

Countdown for the Caribbean

SECTION: Section A; Page 14, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 419 words


There are sound reasons why Congress should approve the Caribbean Basin
Initiative, and they are not quite so obvious as one might think.

Nearly half of America's imports and exports pass through Caribbean waters,
including three-fourths of our oil. The region itself has become a $7 billion
market, and legal immigration to the United States has increased dramatically -
one of five Barbadians and one of six Jamaicans are now living here. And when
there are political upheavals and economic slumps in the Caribbean, illegal
immigration jumps just as dramatically.

The Senate was evidently listening when Secretary Shultz ticked off these
practical points. It has voted the $355 million in direct aid requested by the
Administration. It also seems ready to support the plan's more imaginative
components: duty-free entry for most products from the basin and tax credits of
up to 10 percent for American investments there. But the funds could be lost in
a budget fight with Congress, and the other concessions may not even come up for
a final vote.

Opponents hope to scupper the Caribbean initiative in the House, where the Ways
and Means Committee is taking its sweet time. The Administration has already
gone pretty far to placate domestic interests. Textiles and apparel have been
excluded from duty-free treatment, sugar growers are being paid off with import
quotas and a promise of price supports and there would be relief for any
industry seriously injured by Caribbean imports.

To some industries, like leather goods, that doesn't seem enough.  Their
lobbyist can exploit a potent misgiving, expressed by Senator Leahy: ''I feel
awfully nervous about going back to Vermont and saying I voted for a
half-billion dollars in foreign aid and not knowing what it is I voted for.''

If the President is sincere about his Caribbean initiative, it is his job to
explain to Vermont voters why Pat Leahy, a Democrat, was wrong to oppose the
initiative. Mr. Reagan also has to weigh the risks of losing $355 million in
direct aid if he should decide to veto the $14 billion supplemental money bill
now before House-Senate conferees.

Defending foreign aid and promoting development are not tasks that come easily
to the Reagan team. But if it galvanizes support in the House, it may yet be
able to claim one clear foreign affairs achievement on the Administration's
largely empty slate.

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (95%); BARBADOS (92%);

STATE: VERMONT, USA (92%); CARIBBEAN SEA (73%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CARIBBEAN AREA; UNITED STATES  UNITED STATES (96%); CARIBBEAN
ISLANDS (95%); BARBADOS (92%);   VERMONT, USA (92%); CARIBBEAN SEA (73%);

SUBJECT: FOREIGN AID; UNITED STATE INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES
INTERNATIONAL TRADE  INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); IMMIGRATION (90%); EXPORT
TRADE (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES

 (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); VETO (78%); LOBBYING (78%); LEGISLATORS
(78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); BUDGETS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); TAX LAW

 (73%); IMPORT CONTROLS (72%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (72%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS
(71%); TEXTILES (65%); AGRICULTURE (65%); SUGAR FARMING (50%);

PERSON: PATRICK LEAHY (82%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              90 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 15, 1982, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

'OVERKILL' IN AN IMMIGRATION REFORM BILL

SECTION: Section 4; Page 20, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 461 words


To the Editor:

Senator Alan Simpson's Aug. 10 Op-Ed article, ''Illegal Aliens,''
mischaracterizes the position of the Chamber of Commerce of the United States.v.
e understand the need for reform of our immigration laws and for a solution to
the illegal alien problem. We do not condone the hiring of illegal aliens, nor
do we in any way associate ourselves with those who do; we encourage employers
to continue their own efforts to avoid hiring illegal aliens.

However, we are strongly opposed to legislation that would be an undue burden on
citizens seeking jobs or on employers seeking to hire them. Section 101 of the
Simpson-Mazzoli immigration bill does just that - and the burden would fall most
heavily on smaller businesses.

Section 101 would regulate the hiring practices of virtually all employers and
require them to insist that every job applicant show proof of U.S. citizenship
or legal residency. Otherwise, the employer would face a $500 fine - even if the
person hired turned out to be a U.S. citizen.

One of our chief objections to Section 101 is that it does not specify what type
of ''secure system'' the President is to develop within three years: the
business community is asked to comply with, the American public is asked to
accept and the Congress is asked to approve an unknown universal identification
system that will have to be used every time there is a new hire.

What if the President opted for a worker I.D. card/telephone callin system, as
has been suggested? An employer would then have to call the Federal Government
before hiring anyone. Since, according to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics,
there are 70 million job changes in the United States every year, Uncle Sam
would get two and a half phone calls from employers every second. Anyone who has
ever tried to call the Federal Government for anything must have a pretty good
idea of how such a system would work.

In a July 11 letter to the chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, the
Attorney General stated that the cost for implementing the ''secure system'' in
Section 101 would be $2 billion (the General Accounting Office, watchdog agency
of the Congress, came up with the same figure in 1980).

The U.S. Chamber is simply saying that the proposed employer sanctions in the
immigration bill are overkill. We think that on close examination most citizens
would agree.  CHRISTOPHER LUIS Washington, Aug. 12, 1982

The writer is a labor law attorney for the U.S. Chamber of Commerce.

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%);

COMPANY: UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE  (91%); UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF
COMMERCE (91%);

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE  (91%); UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF
COMMERCE (91%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES  UNITED STATES (99%);

SUBJECT: ILLEGAL ALIENS; HIRING AND PROMOTION; LABOR; IMMIGRATION AND
EMIGRATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION  ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (93%); IMMIGRATION (92%);
LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (90%);
LEGISLATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (90%); FOREIGN
LABOR (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); EMPLOYMENT
SEARCH (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); LAWYERS
(73%); SMALL BUSINESS (71%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (71%); LABOR SECTOR
PERFORMANCE (70%); ACCOUNTING (68%); PUBLIC FINANCE (66%); APPROVALS (65%);
JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (63%);

PERSON: ALAN K SIMPSON  (93%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              91 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 13, 1982, Friday, Late City Final Edition

SENATE OPENS DEBATE ON IMMIGRATION

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 10, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 889 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 12


The Senate today began debating legislation that, if adopted, would make the
most profound changes in the nation's immigration laws since 1952.

The debate opened with warnings that a continued uncontrolled influx of illegal
aliens could threaten the political stability of the country, especially if
newcomers followed the path of cultural separatism.

Senator Alan K. Simpson, Republican of Wyoming, said that under his bill,
''illegal immigration should be substantially reduced.'' ''If immigration is
continued at a high level and yet a substantial portion of these new persons and
their descendants do not follow the historical patterns of earlier immigrant
groups in becoming full participants in American society and public culture,''
he warned, ''then they have the potential to create here a measure of the same
political, social and economic anguish which exist in the countries from which
they have chosen to depart.''

Provisions of Bill

Mr. Simpson, outlining the main features of his bill, said employers who
knowingly hired illegal aliens would be subject to a civil penalty of $1,000 for
each alien. The Government would create a worker identification system, and
employers would have to verify that all job applicants were either citizens or
aliens authorized to work in this country. The bill would also establish a
legalization or amnesty procedure under which illegal aliens who had lived
continuously in the United States since January 1978 would qualify for permanent
resident status. Five years after becoming permanent residents they could apply
for citizenship.

The bill would also tighten the deportation and asylum adjudication procedures,
limiting the appeals that seem now to stretch out almost indefinitely in some
cases.

By a vote of 82 to 17, the Senate today rejected a proposal that would have
eliminated the amnesty provisions of the bill. But the Senate also, by a vote of
84 to 16, adopted an amendment making the legalization procedure significantly
more restrictive.

The amendment, sponsored by Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa,
moves back the eligibility date to January 1977, and it would prevent illegal
aliens given permanent resident status from receiving food stamps, Medicaid,
welfare and other types of Federal assistance for three years.

Amendment Is Rejected

By a vote of 63 to 35, the Senate also rejected an amendment that would have
counted refugees against the annual total of 425,000 admissions allowed for all
legal immigration. In effect, the amendment, offered by Senator Walter D.
Huddleston, Democrat of Kentucky, would have reduced the total number of visas
available for legal immigrants this year by 140,000, the authorized number of
refugees. The level of refugee admissions is now set each year by the President,
in consultation with Congress, under a procedure establised by the Refugee Act
of 1980.

Howard H. Baker Jr., Republican of Tennessee, the Senate majority leader, said
he hoped the Senate could take a final vote on the measure Friday.

Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, strongly criticized
several features of the bill. He said it would undermine the ideal of family
reunification, which has long been a factor in the selection of aliens to be
admitted to this country. ''For the first time,'' he said, ''this bill places
the admission of the immediate relatives of United States citizens - spouses,
children and parents - under a rigid annual ceiling.''

Mr. Kennedy also asserted that the proposed system of enforcement, by employer
sanctions and identification papers, was likely to lead to discrimination
against Hispanic Americans and other minority groups.

Conservatives opposed the portion of the bill providing an amnesty for illegal
aliens. Senators Jesse Helms and John P. East, both North Carolina Republicans,
sought to delete that section of the bill. Mr. East said the amnesty proposal
was inappropriate and illconceived because it carried with it ''the idea of
forgiveness.''

'A Mockery of American Law'

Senator Paula Hawkins, Republican of Florida, said that amnesty was a
short-sighted way to deal with the problem of illegal immigration and would
encourage aliens to keep coming to this country. ''Amnesty rewards
law-breaking,'' she said. ''It makes a mockery of American law. It will
perpetuate the very immorality and lack of ethics that it seeks to end.''

The Senate Judiciary Committee report on the bill describes the plan as ''the
first comprehensive immigration reform effort in the United States in 30
years.'' The last major legislation enacted in this area was the Immigration and
Nationality Act of 1952.

A measure similar to the Simpson bill is now pending before the House Judiciary
Committee.  The Senate rejected three amendments offered by Mr. Kennedy that
would have promoted reunification of families through immigration.  One of the
proposals sought to retain the preference now accorded by the immigration law to
unmarried brothers and sisters of citizens.

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES  UNITED STATES (95%);

SUBJECT: LAW AND LEGISLATION; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; ILLEGAL ALIENS;
DEPORTATION  IMMIGRATION (93%); LEGISLATION (93%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (92%);
IMMIGRATION LAW (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); US
REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); REFUGEES (89%); AMNESTY
(86%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (78%); CITIZENSHIP LAW
(78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); NATURALIZATION (78%); DEPORTATION (78%); FINES &
PENALTIES (73%); MEDICAID (69%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (67%); FOOD STAMPS (60%);
CITIZENSHIP (53%);

PERSON: CHUCK GRASSLEY  (53%); CHUCK GRASSLEY (53%); TED KENNEDY (50%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              92 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              August 11, 1982, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

IMMIGRATION BILL HAS PERSONAL ROOTS

BYLINE: By MARTIN TOLCHIN, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 18, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 958 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Back in World War II, when he was a teen-ager in Cody, Wyo., Alan K. Simpson
would visit a Japanese-American internment camp and play with children his age
who were living behind barbed wire.

''There I was, 13 years old, and the third largest city in Wyoming sprang up on
the sagebrush between Cody and Powell,'' he recalled.  ''I would go to the scout
meetings. Here were boys with the same scout uniforms, the same merit badges,
the same comic books, the same raunchy stories that all 13-year-old boys tell,
and they were behind barbed wire. I would talk with their parents and
grandparents, who were living in tarpaper shacks.''

Today Mr. Simpson, now 50 years old, is a Republican Senator from Wyoming. He is
the co-author of a bill that has drawn mixed reactions from both conservatives
and liberals because it proposes the first major revision in 30 years in Federal
laws governing aliens and immigration. (The bill is to be considered by the
Senate within days.)

Mr. Simpson says that his legislative approach was significantly affected by his
experience with the Japanese-Americans who, for no reason other than their
ancestry, were summarily interned during the fear-filled days immediately after
Pearl Harbor.

National Identification Card

The immigration proposal would give legal status to aliens who arrived in this
country before 1982, would provide for a national identification card for them
and would penalize employers who hired illegal aliens.

The co-author of the bill with Mr. Simpson is Representative Romano L. Mazzoli,
a 49-year-old Kentucky Democrat. He says he became involved in immigration law
as a result of his exposure to the Rev.  Theodore M. Hesburgh, the president of
Notre Dame University who was chairman of the Select Commission on Immigration
and Refugee Policy that was established a few years ago by Congress. A number of
the commission's conclusions are incorporated in the Simpson-Mazzoli bill.

For Senator Simpson, whose easygoing humor has made him one of the best-liked
men in the Senate, the teen-age experience gave him a lifelong distaste for
internment situations. ''You'd go downtown and you'd see a Japanese-American
trustee for the camp who had two sons fighting with the 91st division in Italy,
and next door there would be a sign, 'No Japs Allowed,' '' the Senator recalled.

Mr. Simpson, whose lanky frame towers above that of Mr. Mazzoli and almost
everyone else in Congress, is the tall part of what Mr.  Mazzoli calls ''The
Mutt and Jeff Sideshow.''

''We've taken it to the Borscht Belt of Immigration,'' Mr. Mazzoli says,
referring to San Diego, San Antonio, El Paso, Houston, New York, Florida and
other immigration and refugee centers.

''People are surprised that a Republican from Wyoming and a Democrat from
Kentucky can be completely compatible,'' Mr. Simpson said. ''There's not a shred
of partisanship.''

For those surprised that a Wyoming Senator became involved in immigration law,
even considering his World War II experience, Mr.  Simpson notes that his state
has four times as many Hispanics as American Indians and points out that
Wyoming's Park County ''was one of the largest users and abusers of the Bracero
program in the United States.'' He recalls how Mexicans brought here to pick
sugar beets, were ''skewered by the car dealers'' and other merchants.

Labor Day Assurance

The Senate leadership has promised Mr. Simpson, who has made special visits to
Cuban and Hatian refugee camps, that his immigration measure will be on the
floor before Labor Day. However, Mr. Mazzoli has received no such assurances
from the House leadership.

The Simpson-Mazzoli bill has evoked considerable controversy because of its
provisions for sanctions against employers who hire illegal aliens and its
provision for a national identity card so that prospective employees might
''prove'' that they are citizens or permanent residents. ''We want to end the
magnet that draws people to this country,'' Mr. Mazzoli said.

The measure also is controversial because it would grant permanent resident
status to aliens who entered this country by Jan. 1, l982, and would provide a
temporary employment program for aliens who come to work in specific jobs.
Further, it would permit summary exclusion of an alien entering the United
States without the necessary documents, unless the person asserted some
''reasonable basis''for being admitted or claimed asylum.

Annual Immigration Limited

Finally, the measure calls for a limit of 425,000 immigrants a year, the current
level. No nation could send more than 20,000 immigrants, with the exception of
Mexico and Canada, which could send 40,000 each.

The proposed hiring sanctions in the bill have been vigorously opposed by an
unusual alliance that includes the United States Chamber of Commerce, the
American Civil Liberties Union and various Hispanic groups. On the other hand,
some other Hispanic groups, a number of editorial writers and the A.F.L.-C.I.O.
have strongly praised the bill.

Some Hispanic groups fear that the sanctions on employers will undermine the
job-hunting efforts of Hispanic Americans because employers will not want to
risk hiring illegal aliens. Some civil rights groups fear the precedent of a
national identity card as a first step toward a police state. Other groups
consider the bill to be racist.

''The toughest part of our job is the education process,'' Mr.  Simpson said.
''This is an issue that just can cut you to ribbons.''

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%);

STATE: WYOMING, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA,
USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%);

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (58%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES  UNITED STATES (96%);   WYOMING, USA (96%); NEW YORK,
USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%);
HOUSTON, TX, USA (58%);

SUBJECT: LAW AND LEGISLATION; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; ILLEGAL ALIENS;
REFUGEES AND EXPATRIATES; LABOR  IMMIGRATION (93%); WORLD WAR II (90%); ASIAN
AMERICANS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CHILDREN (90%); REFUGEES (89%);
ADOLESCENTS (89%); IMMIGRATION LAW (87%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (78%); US
REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LIBERALISM (73%); LEGISLATION

 (73%); LEGISLATORS (73%); NATIONAL IDENTITY CARDS (72%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS
(72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); CONSERVATISM (68%); UNIVERSITY
ADMINISTRATION (62%);

PERSON: ALAN K SIMPSON  (94%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: photo of Sen. Alan K. Simpson and Rep. Romano L. Mazzoli
photo of immigrants at Ellis Island

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              93 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               August 10, 1982, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

ILLEGAL ALIENS

BYLINE: By Alan K. Simpson

SECTION: Section A; Page 19, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 906 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


All objective, comprehensive studies of the problem of illegal immigration,
including those by the Ford, Carter and Reagan Administrations, and by the
Select Commission on Immigration and Refugee Policy, have concluded that
adequate enforcement of immigration laws cannot be achieved without greatly
reducing the incentive represented by the temptation of employment in the United
States.

For this reason, section 101 of the proposed Immigration Reform and Control Act
of 1982 is the single provision most urgently needed to assist in reducing
illegal immigration. This section would make unlawful the knowing hiring of
illegal aliens and would provide a system that enables employers to verify that
job applicants are American citizens or legal aliens. Section 101 and the bill's
other provisions are strongly supported by the Administration, by an imposing
array of newspapers and special-interest groups and by the Senate Judiciary
Committee.

Yet, the United States Chamber of Commerce has spiritedly lobbied against this
provision. The most startling feature of its opposition is that it appears to be
based solely on a selfish perception of employers' short-term, purely economic
interest: profitability. That is not the right perspective.

To properly assess the economic impact of illegal immigration, we must consider
long-term effects. Moreover, even a totally selfish person does not act solely
to achieve economic goals; adverse noneconomic impacts can often make an
economic benefit unpalatable.  Thus, consideration of the effects of illegal
immigration on our population, of potential social and political changes and of
historical immigration objectives must be part of the decision-making process.

The Chamber argues that any secure verification system would be ''too
expensive.'' As evidence, it has published some extraordinarily high cost
estimates. More objective sources present less-alarming figures: $100 million to
$300 million per year. Certainly, these are not small numbers, but inadequate
enforcement also involves major costs. The number of illegal aliens in this
country in 1978 has been estimated at 3.5 million to six million. Even if those
estimates are used and it is assumed that only 2 percent hold jobs that
unemployed Americans would take, then the cost in public assistance and
unemployment benefits to the jobless is $490 million to $840 million. The actual
number of people displaced from jobs is probably substantially higher. The
number of illegal aliens is estimated to have increased by 500,000 per year.
This calculation does not even consider the other, less easily quantifiable
costs of illegal immigration.

The Chamber states that the verification procedure would be ''too burdensome''
for employers. Actually, the procedure would be optional for those with three or
fewer employees. Larger employers would be required simply to examine in good
faith a United States passport or two other documents - say, a driver's license,
birth certificate, Social Security card - complete and sign a short form and
have that form signed by the employee. The employer would not be responsible for
the authenticity of the documents, only for their reasonably appearing genuine.
Without this system, the two key goals of section 101 could not both be
achieved: screening illegal aliens out of the workforce and avoiding
discrimination against citizens and legal aliens who look or sound ''foreign''
to employers.

The most disappointing part of the Chamber's argument is the assertion that
individuals, including businessmen, have no obligation to assist the Government
in enforcing our laws. That view is certainly not consistent with our tradition
of responsible citizenship and limited government.

Does the Chamber feel that businesses' legal obligation to withhold income and
Social Security taxes is also unreasonable?  There no practical alternative.
Moreover, a legitimate businessman ought not knowingly hire illegal aliens and
thereby provide the major incentive for violating one of the most fundamental
laws of a sovereign nation - the one controlling its borders.

Fortunately, most businessmen do not share the Chamber's view.  Other business
groups support the bill - the National Association of Manufacturers, for
example. Many local Chambers of Commerce, including those in Texas and
California, where there are great numbers of illegal immigrants, have
acknowledged the need for such reform.

The sponsors are attempting to protect America from uncontrolled immigration for
the sake of their children and grandchildren, while keeping at bay the specter
of meanness, nativism and racism.  Fortunately, a sizeable majority of Americans
are willing hark to an appeal to rise above any special interest they may have
in order to obtain workable immigration reform. It is puzzling why the United
States Chamber of Commerce is not.
---------------------------------------------------------------------
Alan K. Simpson, Republican Senator from Wyoming, is chairman of the Senate
Judiciary Committee's immigration and refugee reform subcommittee.

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%);

COMPANY: UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE  (56%); UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF
COMMERCE (56%);

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE  (56%); UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF
COMMERCE (56%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES  UNITED STATES (99%);

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; REFUGEES AND EXPATRIATES; LAW AND
LEGISLATION; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; DISCRIMINATION; ILLEGAL ALIENS
IMMIGRATION (94%); IMMIGRATION LAW (94%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (93%); REFUGEES
(91%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FOREIGN LABOR (78%);
PASSPORTS & VISAS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (77%);
LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); LEGISLATION (77%);
INCOME ASSISTANCE (76%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (75%);

 BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (75%); SOCIAL SECURITY (73%); DISPLACED
PERSONS (72%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (72%); LOBBYING (71%);

PERSON: JIMMY CARTER (92%); RONALD REAGAN (92%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: OP-ED

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              94 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 9, 1982, Monday, Late City Final Edition

Turning Mean on Immigration

SECTION: Section A; Page 14, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 712 words


Today or tomorrow, the Senate will have a rare, fleeting moment to put the
United States back in charge of its own borders - but it may blow the chance.

Controlling immigration has become an important goal of conservatives and
liberals alike. Now, finally, they have a way to get from here to there: the
broad and balanced immigration reform bill sponsored by Senator Alan Simpson,
Wyoming Republican, and Representative Romano Mazzoli, Kentucky Democrat, which
is about to come up for debate in the Senate.

The underlying idea is simple: reduce illegal immigration sharply while holding
legal immigration at the present level. But both halves of that proposition are
threatened by harsh amendments to be offered in the Senate. Unless they are
beaten, the opportunity of a generation will be lost.

The idea of clamping down on illegal immigration may sound like pure virtue, but
it arouses employers and civil libertarians. In response, the Simpson-Mazzoli
bill is adjusted as delicately as a clock. The best way to discourage illegal
immigrants is to make it harder for them to get jobs - and the practical way to
do that is to make it against the law for employers to hire them. For that to
work, in turn, means some kind of identification system, so employers can tell
who is illegal.

Employer sanctions and an identification system are the heart of the bill;
without them, it is not worth having. But civil libertarians fear invasions of
privacy and Hispanic groups fear discrimination. Unless offset, such fears would
trigger powerful, perhaps fatal opposition to the bill.

That's one reason it also contains an amnesty provision. Over the years,
thousands of illegal entrants have created new lives here, but lives shadowed by
fear of discovery and exploitation by unscrupulous employers. The
Simpson-Mazzoli bill would provide a onetime amnesty for most of them, offering
enough humane benefit to induce some opponents of sanctions to go along.

But that's not good enough for Senator Jesse Helms, the North Carolina
Republican. He insists that amnesty must be deleted altogether - even though
that would jeopardize the whole bill. He would rather break the clock than see
an amnesty provision succeed.

Senator Charles Grassley, the Iowa Republican, proposes, more sensibly, to delay
amnesty for three years, the same three years in which the Government is
supposed to work out an effective identification system. Both sides of the
bargain would remain hostage to each other, not a bad idea considering how much
the bill's identification provisions have been watered down.

There is a harsh spirit alive also over legal immigration. Senator Walter
Huddleston, a Kentucky Democrat, proposes limiting all immigration to 425,000 a
year. That's roughly the present amount -but there's a big catch. He would
include refugees within his limit. That would reduce total admissions by 100,000
or more people a year.

The Huddleston cap illogically lumps together two wholly different kinds of
people. Refugees are desperate to escape persecution; immigrants are eager to
rejoin their families or find new opportunity. The probable effect would be to
cut deeply into the number of parents, wives and children of U.S. residents who
could come in legally.

At a time of 9.8 percent unemployment, there's a glib appeal to the Huddleston
notion. It's not the first time someone has blamed economic distress on
foreigners. It's not the first time legislators have turned exclusionary or
nativist. But if people like Senator Huddleston are sincere about losing jobs to
foreigners, it's illegal migrants they should be worried about.

The 97th Congress is winding down fast, but the chances are that if the Senate
can pass the Simpson-Mazzoli bill without these ugly amendments, the House will
act quickly. The public, to judge by polls, overwhelmingly supports controlling
the borders. This bill provides a way to do so in ways that are effective
without being ugly. Congress should jump at the chance.

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%);

STATE: KENTUCKY, USA (93%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES  UNITED STATES (93%);   KENTUCKY, USA (93%); NORTH
CAROLINA, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%);

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION; ILLEGAL ALIENS
IMMIGRATION (93%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE
BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); IMMIGRATION
LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); AMNESTY (89%);
REFUGEES (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (72%);
RECRUITMENT & HIRING (68%);

PERSON: CHUCK GRASSLEY  (52%); CHUCK GRASSLEY (52%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              95 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 8, 1982, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

150 HAITIANS, 46 AFGHANS WAIT IN NEW YORK CENTERS FOR ASYLUM

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 30, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 838 words


About 150 Haitians and 46 Afghans are being held in two Immigration and
Naturalization Service centers in New York State, six weeks after a Federal
judge in Florida ordered the release of 1,900 Haitians he said had been detained
illegally there.

Officials reported they were making arrangements to free most of the Haitians
here. But they added that they did not believe the order, by Judge Eugene P.
Spellman, applied to the Afghans or Haitians who entered the United States
illegally at New York and were detained.

Some of the aliens have been held seven months, under a new policy requiring
preventive detention pending immigration hearings.  Formerly, these aliens were
allowed to stay with community sponsors pending the hearings.

Procedural Violations Charged

The judge said that the agency had not followed proper procedures in announcing
the new policy, but he did not rule on its constitutionality.

The agency's policy change has prompted several challenges to preventive
detention and the way it has been carried out. Lawyers for the detained aliens
argue that the recent court order releasing the Haitians to community sponsors
applied to all nationalities.

Officials contend that only Haitians are affected and defend the new policy as a
deterrent to illegal immigration.  James A. Jaysey, deputy district director of
the Immigration Service's regional office, said he was striving to identify
aliens affected by the court order so he could arrange their release.

So far, he said, five of the 60 Haitians at the Brooklyn detention center, at
136 Flushing Avenue, and 90 Haitians at an Otisville, N.Y., detention center
would be affected.

Wider Application Is Urged

A lawsuit filed Thursday by the Lawyers Committee for International Human Rights
contends that the court order affects not only Haitians. The suit says that a
decision on June 18 also applies to an Afghan and three Iranians held at the
Brooklyn center, according to Arthur C. Helton, director of the committee's
Political Asylum Project.

Judge Spellman ruled that the immigration agency's new policy was ''null and
void'' because the agency had not announced the change in The Federal Register
and had not asked for public comment, as required by the Administrative
Procedure Act.

On June 29, the judge ordered the release of 1,900 Haitians to the care of
sponsors in the community. The agency is appealing.

Rush by Others Was Feared

The judge allowed the agency to continue to detain illegal immigrants, however,
to avoid a rush by others to enter the United States before the new regulations
were published July 9, according to Duane Austin, an agency spokesman.

Mr. Austin said the agency believed the judge's decision applied only to
Haitians so it had no plans to release others unless they were under the age of
16, had close relatives in the United States or were pregnant or ill.

Mr. Helton said he believed the Brooklyn center had not provided adequate
medical care or recreational and social services for the detainees.

The conditions at the facility, he said, ''tend to coerce people to give up
their claims and return to their country to face persecution.'' Mr. Helton said
that the lawyers' committee had not decided whether to challenge the
constitutionality of the detention policy.

Legal Process Prolongs Stay

Mr. Austin said that even though the agency's facilities were not designed for
long-term detention, ''it is the individual's choice to lengthen his stay by
lengthening the legal process.''

''The agency would love to see these cases adjudicated,'' he said.  ''But they
came here realizing that they were foreigners, and they came here undocumented.
What do you say to the 1.2 million people waiting eight or nine years to get
into the United States if you let people arrive here and turn them loose?''

Mr. Austin said preventive detention discouraged illegal immigration. Before the
new policy, he said, as many as 1,700 Haitians a month were entering the United
States illegally. Last month, he said, the known total was four.

In May, 34 Afghans were being held in the Brooklyn center. As of yesterday there
were 46 Afghans, along with eight Iraqis and three Iranians, according to Kevin
Doyle, director of the center. The Afghans are seeking political asylum,
contending they suffered political persecution in their homeland. The State
Department has denied many of the petitions.

1,146 Afghans Awaiting Asylum

At the end of May, 1,146 Afghans across the nation were waiting for decisions on
their asylum requests, Mr. Austin said.  From October 1981 to May, 232 Afghans
were granted asylum and 110 were denied it, compared with 208 approvals and 26
denials the year before.

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); HAITI (95%); AFGHANISTAN (93%);

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); FLORIDA, USA (94%);

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%);

COMPANY: NEW YORK STATE CANAL CORP (92%); NEW YORK STATE ASSOCIATION FOR
RETARDED CHILDREN INC (92%); NEW YORK STATE ENVIRONMENTAL FACILITIES CORP (92%);

   IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE  (91%); IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION
SERVICE (91%);

ORGANIZATION: IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE  (91%); IMMIGRATION &
NATURALIZATION SERVICE (91%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; HAITI; AFGHANISTAN; NEW YORK STATE  UNITED STATES
(95%); HAITI (95%); AFGHANISTAN (93%);   NEW YORK, USA (95%); FLORIDA, USA
(94%);   NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%);

SUBJECT: REFUGEES AND EXPATRIATES; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; PRISONS AND
PRISONERS  IMMIGRATION (93%); JUDGES (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%);
IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); IMMIGRANT DETENTION CENTERS (89%); LITIGATION (89%);
SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (89%); POLITICAL ASYLUM (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS
(89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (89%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (89%); LAWYERS (78%);
ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (78%); REFUGEES (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS (77%); ADMINISTRATIVE
PROCEDURE (74%); SUITS & CLAIMS (65%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              96 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 8, 1982, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

HAITIANS FREED BY U.S. JUDGE ARE IN LEGAL AND SOCIAL LIMBO

BYLINE: By RICHARD J. MEISLIN, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 30, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 948 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Aug. 7


More than a month after their release was ordered by a Federal judge, Haitian
refugees are leaving Federal detention facilities at a trickle. And those at
liberty are finding themselves in a legal and social limbo.

As of today, 151 refugees had been released under the court order, all but eight
of them from the Krome Avenue detention center at the edge of the Everglades
just west of here.

A few dozen other refugees have been paroled for what the Immigration and
Naturalization Service called ''humanitarian'' reasons. But that still left more
than 1,600 Haitians in detention in the United States and Puerto Rico.

Representatives of voluntary agencies aiding the Haitians said the next group,
those held at Fort Allen in Puerto Rico, could begin leaving detention sometime
next week. More than 700 Haitians are now being held there.

Long Legal Procedure Likely

''We haven't hit any big snags,'' said Beverly McFarland, a spokesman for the
immigration agency, ''but it's not moving quite as rapidly as people
anticipated.''

Those who have been released will have to appear 30 days later to begin hearings
on whether they will be allowed to remain here, giving their liberty a cast of
uncertainty. The first of those hearings is to begin Aug. 26, but the procedure
could be a long one.

Meanwhile, life for those who have been freed has already become a struggle.
Many of them speak only their native Creole, making their situation more
difficult than that of the Cubans who arrived in 1980 and joined Miami's large
Spanish-speaking community.

In addition, many of the Haitians lack job skills to make them self-supporting.
And since the question of whether they will be able to stay in the United States
remains open, they are less attractive to potential employers.

''The Haitians will work - they'll take almost anything,'' said Gerry Wynne,
director of program development for the United States Catholic Conference, the
largest voluntary agency involved in resettling the Haitians. ''But it's a great
deal to ask, finding jobs in this economy.''

Some of the newly released refugees have already caused a stir by applying for
welfare benefits, a move that appears to run counter to the intent expressed in
the court order by Federal District Judge Eugene P. Spellman that they were not
''to be the continued concern of the state or the community'' in which they were
located.

Linda Berkowitz, refugee coordinator for Miami's Health and Rehabilitative
Services Department, said that at least 22 of the recently released refugees had
applied for benefits and 15 of the applications had been approved.

''By law, we can't deny it,'' she said. ''This is a point that Judge Spellman
made in court the other day when he said that if it's their legal right, there's
nothing even he can do.''

The voluntary agencies have received a Federal grant allowing them to provide
health insurance for the Haitians through a private insurance carrier. Mr. Wynne
said the agencies were supposed to provide for the refugees' needs for at least
the first 120 days, making welfare unnecessary. He estimated that the cost per
refugee would range from $1,300 to $1,800.

Worried About Day 121

Welfare officials have complained that they have no way of determining who a
welfare applicant's sponsor is. The voluntary agencies have now agreed to
provide lists of the refugees they are assisting, to prevent them from receiving
welfare benefits as well, at least for the first 120 days.

''What worries me is what will happen on Day 121,'' Mr. Wynne said. ''The I.N.S.
may think they'll have their hearings and be deported by then, but it's not
going to happen that way.''

As the Haitians begin to leave detention for the community, the legal battle
that brought their release continued.  Judge Spellman's order was based only on
the procedural methods the immigration agency used to change its policy from one
of liberty while awaiting hearings to one of detention. He ruled that the
refugees' main charge, that they were being discriminated against as a group,
was not valid.

The immigration agency has appealed the ruling against its procedure, and
refugee groups have appealed the ruling that the detention policy was not
discriminatory. Arguments in that case are to begin in the Unites States Court
of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit in Atlanta next month.

Tough Enforcement Continues

Meanwhile, the immigration agency gave evidence this week that it had no
intention of allowing Judge Spellman's order to permit a renewed flow of
Haitians entering this country illegally.

Four Haitians who stowed away on the Bahamian ship Yeocomico II with the help of
a Haitian crew member were found this week, dehydrated and hungry after a
three-day trip without food or water, when it docked in Dania, Fla., just south
of Fort Lauderdale. The refugees had paid a total of $1,000 to the crew member,
who jumped ship and was still at large.

The immigration agency immediately ordered the Haitians detained, an order that
the captain fulfilled by tying them to the deck railing.

The refugees were deported to the Bahamas the next day, where they were arrested
and jailed. Truman Carr, deputy chief of the border patrol in Miami, said this
type of tough enforcement had discouraged the influx of Haitians to the point
that it had ''dropped down to half a dozen a month from where we were getting
hundreds a night.''

COUNTRY: HAITI (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); PUERTO RICO (92%);

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (94%);

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (94%);

COMPANY: IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE  (57%); IMMIGRATION &
NATURALIZATION SERVICE (57%);

ORGANIZATION: IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE  (57%); IMMIGRATION &
NATURALIZATION SERVICE (57%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;HAITI; UNITED STATES  HAITI (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); PUERTO RICO

 (92%);   FLORIDA, USA (94%);   MIAMI, FL, USA (94%);

SUBJECT: PRISONS AND PRISONERS; REFUGEES AND EXPATRIATES; IMMIGRATION AND
EMIGRATION  REFUGEES (91%); IMMIGRANT DETENTION CENTERS (90%); IMMIGRATION
(90%); JUDGES (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); TRIAL & PROCEDURE (78%); US
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); PAROLE (78%); APPROVALS (73%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES
(73%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (68%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: photo of one of four Haitian refugees stowed away

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              97 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               August 4, 1982, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

Haitian Stowaways, Seized in Florida, Are Sent Back A crewman of the Yeocomico
II gives water to one of four Haitians who were found in the hold of the ship
after it docked at Dania, Fla.  They boarded the vessel Friday in the Bahamas
and had no food or water supplies on the trip. U.S. immigration officials
returned them to the Bahamas yesterday aboard the Yeocomico.

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: Section A; Page 12, Column 3; National Desk

COUNTRY: HAITI (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); BAHAMAS (91%);

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (94%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;HAITI; UNITED STATES  HAITI (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); BAHAMAS
(91%);   FLORIDA, USA (94%);

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION  IMMIGRATION (89%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Caption

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              98 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 1, 1982, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

Integration And Idealism

SECTION: Section 11; Long Island; Page 16, Column 4; Long Island Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 163 words


Michael Kirwan, director of the Human Relations Commission of the Village of
Freeport, admits (''Redistricting and Segregation: Repeating a Pattern,''
Opinion Page) that black immigration into Nassau reproduces the urban ghettos in
suburbia. Yet he insists that integration will take place because its time has
come and because ''it is the American way.''

I disagree on both points. He confuses the American myth, summed up in ''one
nation indivisible, with liberty and justice for all,'' with the American way,
best characterized by Rap Brown's ''Violence is as American as Cherry pie.''
That the time is not ripe is amply reflected by the brutal mob murder of a black
transit worker in Sheepshead Bay on June 22.

Still I am glad that Mr. Kirwan is an idealist. Although idealism always
contains a large measure of self-delusion, it is only through an optimistic
refusal to regard the status quo as permanent that social progress is made.
STANLEY W. PAGE, Lido Beach

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%);

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NASSAU COUNTY (NY)  UNITED STATES (94%);   NEW YORK, USA (90%);

SUBJECT: BLACKS (IN US); REAPPORTIONMENT; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; POPULATION
REDISTRICTING (91%); IMMIGRATION (90%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: letter

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              99 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 30, 1982, Friday, Late City Final Edition

OUT OF MIAMI DETENTION, HAITIAN TESTS FREEDOM

BYLINE: By REGINALD STUART, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 8, Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 1105 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, July 27


Shortly before Joseph Denis was released from the Krome Avenue detention center
here, a Federal immigration official gave him a slip of paper. On it were Mr.
Denis's name, his country of birth, Haiti, and the date on which his temporary
release could be extended or revoked, Nov. 23, 1982.

''This is my freedom,'' Mr. Denis said of the slip of paper a few days after he
left the makeshift prison to settle in a tiny apartment in the Little Haiti
section of this city. Of his new life, still less than a week old, he said,
''They gave me my papers and I hope it's for good.''

Mr. Denis, 24 years old, was among the first of 1,900 Haitian refugees who are
to be released from the seven Federal detention facilities where they have been
held since they entered the country, some more than a year ago. On June 29 their
detention was ruled illegal by Federal District Judge Eugene P. Spellman in
Miami, who found that the Government, in dealing with the Haitians, had changed
its immigration rules without following proper rule-making procedures.

Formerly They Got Parole at Once

Since the 1950's, most refugees, people who say they have fled their country for
political reasons, have been allowed to enter this country and immediately
receive parole pending a determination of their right to asylum.

In the case of the Haitians, however, there is a dispute between the Government
and the refugees. The Government holds that the Haitians have entered the
country illegally, without documents and with no valid claim to asylum, but
simply for economic reasons. The Haitians say they are political refugees
because they would face persecution if they were returned home.

Since August 1981, with a huge flow of Haitians following a huge flow of Cubans,
the Immigration and Naturalization Service has been detaining the Haitians,
planning to exclude them, meaning send them back home. The Government also hoped
that the policy would discourage others from coming here. The move evoked
national controversy, with sharp criticism from many religious and human rights
groups. In September a Federal judge enjoined the Government from holding
exclusion hearings for any refugee not represented by a lawyer. Then in June,
the Haitians were ordered released.

The release signals the end of a series of ordeals for each of them, if the
experiences of Mr. Denis are any example. And although the smell of freedom is
more a reality now than a hope, he and the Haitians who have lived in this
country longer carry a heavy burden.

In an interview, translated into English from his French patois through an
interpreter and family members, Mr. Denis spoke of his concern for others still
detained and of those who died at sea while fleeing. He said he was worried
about possible Haitian Government reprisals against his parents and four
brothers and three sisters.

''I'm scared for them because the authorities could go and abuse them,'' Mr.
Denis said.  As was the case for most of the refugees, Mr. Denis said that he
fled Haiti under less than ideal circumstances. He said he feared for his safety
after an encounter with an officer of Haiti's Volunteers for National Security,
who are as feared as their predecessors, the Tonton Macoutes.

Mr. Denis said the officer had wanted to graze his cattle on Mr.  Denis's small
plot despite Mr. Denis's objections. Mr. Denis was arrested and, as is said to
be commonplace in Haiti, was never charged with anything and was then released.
A few days later, Mr.  Denis said, his new home burned. He blames the officer
for his troubles.

'I Could Not Stay in Haiti'

''It was threatening for me,'' said Mr. Denis. ''So I sold some oxen, put the
money away and paid for my trip here, $85. I was scared to leave because I was
told it was a long dangerous trip, but I could not stay in Haiti anymore.''

On Sept. 22, 1981, he said, he and 61 others boarded a 30-foot boat on Haiti's
southern shore for a journey that would not end until Oct. 14 at Miami Beach.
The only food aboard was rice, a staple in Haiti.  The only stop was in Cuba,
where their food was replenished and their deteriorating boat was pointed toward
the Florida Keys.

On reaching the United States, Mr. Denis did not find the open arms that
Dieuseul Charles said that he remembered when he fled here in May 1970. Mr.
Charles, a neighbor in Miami, was a naval officer in Haiti before being deported
after he participated in bombing the royal palace in Port-au-Prince, the
capital.

''The American immigration people welcomed us like brothers,'' Mr.  Charles
declared, as Mr. Denis gathered his thoughts for a moment.  ''The first time I
came here I was happy.''

Mr. Denis said of his arrival: ''I didn't think I would be imprisoned.'' In the
months that passed, he said, suicide often crossed his mind. ''What I saw was
misery,'' he declared, not the ''life and liberty'' he and the other refugees
talked about in their scary time at sea. ''The only good time I remember at
Krome was when they said they were going to release us,'' he said.

Mr. Denis was released to his relatives here, including Sauveur LaCouture, his
38-year-old brother, who came to this country in 1977. ''I will learn a job,
study,'' he said, as his brother nodded. ''And by this time next year, I will be
looking for something I can do.''

'Our People Help Each Other'

As a practical matter, much adjustment must be made, the more experienced
Haitians said. Most of the refugees, including Mr. Denis, will have to learn
English quickly. So far, Mr. Denis says with a smile, he knows only the word
''dollar.'' Learning to drive an automobile may be imperative to get work
outside Little Haiti.

There is support within the community for all of these things, said Mr. Charles
and Mr. Denis's older brother. ''Our people help each other,'' said Mr. Charles.

Some new Haitians feel they probably face a more hostile public.  The plight of
the Haitian refugees has been embraced in recent months by much of the Miami
area. But hate mail posted on the wall of an activist, the Rev. Gerard
Jean-Juste of the Haitian Refugee Center, attests hostility as well.

''I have heard there are Americans who resent my coming here,'' said Mr. Denis,
when asked about the uneasy environment. ''But to them I say, I cannot go back
to Haiti. Don't send me back to Haiti.''

COUNTRY: HAITI (99%); UNITED STATES (91%);

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (91%);

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (91%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; HAITI  HAITI (99%); UNITED STATES (91%);   FLORIDA,
USA (91%);   MIAMI, FL, USA (91%);

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; REFUGEES AND EXPATRIATES; PRISONS AND
PRISONERS  IMMIGRATION (92%); REFUGEES (91%); IMMIGRANT DETENTION CENTERS (90%);

 PAROLE (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); POLITICAL ASYLUM (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%);
AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (76%);
FAMILY (75%); JUDGES (72%); INJUNCTIONS (72%); ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE (66%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              100 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               July 28, 1982, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

SPORTS PEOPLE;
Decision Awaited

SECTION: Section B; Page 9, Column 1; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 71 words


Hu Na, the 19-year-old Chinese tennis player who has requested political asylum
in the United States, may have to wait several weeks for a decision, according
to an official of the Immigration and Naturalization Service. David Ilchert, a
district director of the agency, said he could not act until he received an
advisory opinion from the State Department in Washington.

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%);

COMPANY: IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE  (91%); IMMIGRATION &
NATURALIZATION SERVICE (91%);

ORGANIZATION: IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE  (91%); IMMIGRATION &
NATURALIZATION SERVICE (91%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES  UNITED STATES (96%);

SUBJECT: CHINA; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; TENNIS; REFUGEES AND EXPATRIATES
IMMIGRATION (93%); ATHLETES (91%); TENNIS (90%); SPORTS (90%); US FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL ASYLUM (90%); REFUGEES (85%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              101 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                July 27, 1982, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

SPORTS PEOPLE;
Athlete Asks Asylum

SECTION: Section A; Page 20, Column 1; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 164 words


Hu Na, the Chinese tennis star who disappeared from her hotel last week, asked
for political asylum yesterday at the San Francisco office of the Immigration
and Naturalization Service. ''It's now up to the State Department whether she
gets asylum or not,'' said David Ilchert, the I.N.S. district director. Miss Hu
appeared with her lawyer, Edward C.Y. Lau of San Francisco, who said his client
had informed Chinese officials last week of her intentions. ''She has been safe
and comfortable in seclusion, where she will remain until the State Department
decides on her petition,'' the attorney said.  Chinese officials said they were
confused by Miss Hu's actions and believed she may have been talked into leaving
her team by an outside source. Miss Hu, who is from the Szechuan Province, won a
tournament last year in Mexico and was considered potentially good enough to be
among the world's top 20 women players.

COUNTRY: CHINA (93%); UNITED STATES (79%);

STATE: SICHUAN, CHINA (58%);

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (88%);

COMPANY: IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE  (92%); IMMIGRATION &
NATURALIZATION SERVICE (91%);

ORGANIZATION: IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE  (92%); IMMIGRATION &
NATURALIZATION SERVICE (91%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES  CHINA (93%); UNITED STATES (79%);   SICHUAN, CHINA
(58%);   SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (88%);

SUBJECT: TENNIS; PROFESSIONAL ATHLETICS; CHINA; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION;
REFUGEES AND EXPATRIATES  IMMIGRATION (93%); POLITICAL ASYLUM (93%); TENNIS
(90%); SPORTS (90%); CELEBRITIES (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (88%); SPORTS
& RECREATION (88%); REFUGEES (73%); LAWYERS (72%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: photo of Hu Na

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              102 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                July 24, 1982, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

HAITIANS LEAVING DETENTION IN MIAMI

BYLINE: By RICHARD J. MEISLIN, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1, Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 971 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, July 23


With songs and chants from supporters, the first of 1,807 Haitian refugees
ordered freed by a Federal judge were released today from a Federal detention
camp near the Everglades.

The action followed an agreement Thursday night between the Government, refugee
groups and voluntary assistance agencies that set aside the final obstacles to
the release of the refugees, some of whom have been held for more than a year.

Immigration officials released 17 refugees in the first group. They said others
would be freed as voluntary agencies came forward with the names of sponsors, in
a process likely to take several days.

This afternoon at the Immigration and Naturalization Service's Krome Avenue
detention center, west of here, expectation and jubilation began to replace the
frustration among the refugees who, for nearly a month after the judge's order,
had been able to smell their freedom but not taste it.

The frustration welled up earlier this week into a battle when two refugees at
Krome, said to be angry over lack of drinking water, destroyed some furniture at
the center.

There were 407 refugees at the Krome camp today, and 1,400 more at camps in New
York, Kentucky, Texas, West Virginia and Puerto Rico.  All are covered by the
Federal court order, issued June 29 by Judge Eugene P. Spellman, except 53 held
in Brooklyn. Their release had been ordered by a Federal judge in Brooklyn, but
that order was overturned on appeal.

''They've been pretty cheered up,'' Beverly McFarland, a spokesman for the
immigration service, said of the Krome refugees. ''Now they're just waiting for
whose name gets called.''

The first name to be called was that of Etienne Francois, a 42-year-old Haitian
who had been held behind the chain-link fence at Krome, on the edge of the
Everglades, since August.

He left the center shortly after 3 P.M., driven through the gates past a line of
immigration officers by a representative of the Church World Service's Episcopal
Bishops Fund.

As a small group of Haitians outside the gates chanted ''Liberty!  Liberty!''
and sang a Haitian hymn that included the line, ''Thanks to God, the misery is
over for us,'' Mr. Francois, surrounded by dozens of reporters, emerged from his
car. He looked with bewilderment at the crowd and raised his arms over his head
in a sign of victory.

Praying for All to Be Free

The Rev. Gerard Jean-Juste, head of the Haitian Refugee Center here, translated
as Mr. Francois said that he was ''praying to God that everyone else will be
free someday.''

''I don't feel too bad,'' Mr. Francois added, with a sheepish smile. He edged
back into the car and went to stay with a cousin in the Miami area.

His release was followed minutes later by that of Raoul Felix, a 41-year-old
carpenter with a broad grin and a scrubby beard, whose sister Olga had come with
agency workers to retrieve him after almost a year of detention.

''I feel good for him - I'm glad, I'm glad,'' said Miss Felix, who runs a dress
shop in Miami. ''Eleven months I've been waiting - now I'm happy today. Big
party.''

The parole of the Haitians was ordered last month by Judge Spellman, who ruled
that the Government had violated administratative procedures in deciding last
year to detain Haitians who sought refuge in this country. Until that time, the
Government had allowed the immigrants to be free on parole while conducting
hearings and other inquiries on their fate.

Still Face Court Hearings

The freedom gained by the Haitians today is tenuous. Under the Federal court
order, those released will have to return to court in 30 days for exclusionary
hearings to determine whether they will be able to remain here.

The agreement on at least temporary freedom came Thursday night, when the
Government agreed to a shorter release form to be signed by the refugees and
their sponsors. The voluntary agencies, meanwhile, agreed to put aside a battle
with the Government over money for refugee resettlement.

Mr. Jean-Juste said that all but ''10 or 15 percent'' of those being released
from the Krome center would be staying with relatives in the area, making the
issue of resettlement costs less important than that of rapid release.

Under the agreement signed by the voluntary agencies and the sponsors, a sponsor
will have to be in contact with the refugee he is responsible for at least once
a week. Sponsors will have to make a weekly report to a voluntary agency on the
refugeee's whereabouts and to disclose any arrests.

An issue underlying the controversy is whether the Haitians were fleeing
political repression or escaping their country's ravaged economy.

The Government has attempted to place most of the refugees in the latter
category, that of economic refugees, which would mean they are not entitled to
remain in this country. Until last summer, however, it treated them as other
refugees, granting parole until cases were decided.

The change in policy, which resulted in the detention of several hundred
Haitians in Federal centers for more than a year, was intended to stem a sharp
increase in illegal immigration.

----

Interviewing Schedules Set

MIAMI, July 23 (AP) - Haitians detained in Otisville, N.@Y., and Ray Brook,
N.Y., were to be interviewed next week by representatives of the religious
agencies sponsoring them. Officials said plans call for all of them to be
released within two months.

On Tuesday representatives of the United States Catholic Conference are to begin
interviewing the 157 Haitian men at the Federal prison in Ray Brook, in the
Adirondacks, the Rev. Stephen Gratto of Plattsburgh said today.

Representatives of World Relief Services are to begin orientation meetings
Monday with the 93 Haitian men at the Federal Correctional Institute at
Otisville in the Catskills, Warden J. Michael Quinlan said.

COUNTRY: HAITI (99%); UNITED STATES (94%);

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA
(79%);

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%);

COMPANY: IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE  (57%); IMMIGRATION &
NATURALIZATION SERVICE (57%);

ORGANIZATION: IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE  (57%); IMMIGRATION &
NATURALIZATION SERVICE (57%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;FLORIDA; HAITI; UNITED STATES; NEW YORK STATE  HAITI (99%); UNITED
STATES (94%);   NEW YORK, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%);
KENTUCKY, USA (79%);   MIAMI, FL, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%);

SUBJECT: REFUGEES AND EXPATRIATES; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; RELIGION AND
CHURCHES; FEDERAL DISTRICT COURTS  JUDGES (92%); IMMIGRANT DETENTION CENTERS
(90%); IMMIGRATION (90%); REFUGEES (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); CHRISTIANS &
CHRISTIANITY (85%); RELIGION (85%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); LAW COURTS &
TRIBUNALS (73%); APPEALS (64%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (61%); WATER CRISES &
SHORTAGES (52%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: photo of Haitian refugees after release from detention
center photo of Raoul Felix (Page 7)

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              103 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 23, 1982, Friday, Late City Final Edition

AROUND THE NATION;
Some Haitian Refugees Could Be Freed Friday

BYLINE: UPI

SECTION: Section A; Page 8, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 137 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, July 22


The release of more than 1,800 Haitian refugees held across the country could
begin Friday, attorneys for the Government and the refugees said tonight.

Representatives of the Haitians, volunteer resettlement agencies and the
Immigration and Naturalization Service resolved the wording of a document that
sponsors of refugees would have to sign. It was apparently the last barrier to
the Haitians' release.

The compromise is still subject to approval by the American Council of Voluntary
Action, which is coordinating the resettlement of the 410 Haitians held in a
Miami detention center.

The agreement tonight would have no immediate impact on about 1,400 other
Haitian refugees held in camps in five other states and Puerto Rico, who are
also awaiting their release.

COUNTRY: HAITI (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); PUERTO RICO (79%);

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (92%);

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (92%);

COMPANY: AMERICAN COUNCIL FOR INTERNATIONAL STUDIES INC (55%);   IMMIGRATION &
NATURALIZATION SERVICE  (84%); IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE (84%);

ORGANIZATION: IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE  (84%); IMMIGRATION &
NATURALIZATION SERVICE (84%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;FLORIDA; UNITED STATES  HAITI (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); PUERTO
RICO (79%);   FLORIDA, USA (92%);   MIAMI, FL, USA (92%);

SUBJECT: REFUGEES AND EXPATRIATES; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION  IMMIGRATION
(90%); REFUGEES (90%); APPROVALS (85%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              104 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                July 20, 1982, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

Ukrainian Arrested in Ohio

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 14, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 78 words

DATELINE: CLEVELAND, July 19


John Demjanjuk, a Ukrainian-born immigrant who was stripped of his United States
citizenship after a Federal Court held that he falsified immigration papers, was
arrested today after failing to appear at a deportation hearing a week ago.  Mr.
Demjanjuk, 62 years old, who denies charges that he hid a past as a guard in a
Nazi concentration camp, was taken into custody in the Old Federal Courthouse.

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%);

STATE: OHIO, USA (94%);

CITY: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (94%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CLEVELAND (OHIO); UNITED STATES  UNITED STATES (94%);   OHIO, USA
(94%);   CLEVELAND, OH, USA (94%);

SUBJECT: CITIZENSHIP; DECISIONS AND VERDICTS; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION
IMMIGRATION (95%); ARRESTS (93%); DEMJANJUK WAR CRIMES CASE (91%); LITIGATION
(91%); DEPORTATION (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); DENATURALIZATION (90%);

PERSON: JOHN DEMJANJUK  (93%); JOHN DEMJANJUK (93%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              105 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 19, 1982, Monday, Late City Final Edition

STUDY SEES SHIFT IN U.S. POPULATION

BYLINE: Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 10, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 574 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, July 18


The proportion of Americans who are white and of European ancestry, the nation's
basic ethnic stock since Colonial days, will decline at an accelerating rate in
the next two decades, according to an analysis of population trends by a
California research organization.

Based on computer projections of immigration patterns and fertility rates, the
study concluded that Americans who are white and non-Hispanic will make up 77
percent of the population in 1990 and 75 percent by 2000, compared with
approximately 80 percent in 1980.

The analysis, done by the Center for Continuing Study of the California Economy,
predicts explosive population growth for people of Asian and Hispanic ancestry.
The number of Asians will rise at least 90.7 percent to 10.6 million in the next
two decades, while the number of Hispanics will increase at least 58 percent to
23 million, according to the study.

If the forecast is accurate, the trend would continue a pattern observed in the
1980 census. In the 1970's, the proportion of non-Hispanic whites in the
population declined to about 80 percent from 86 percent.

Growth in Minority Groups

''More than half of the U.S. population growth in the next two decades will come
from minority groups,'' said Stephen Levy, a coauthor of the report.

People of Hispanic origin are expected to account for about 25 percent of the
population growth, largely because of a higher birth rate among Hispanic
families, the relative youth of childbearing Hispanic women and continuing
emigration from Mexico and other Latin countries.

Robert Arnold, director of the research group in Palo Alto, which specializes in
studies of the California economy, said the projections were derived from a
computer model of demographic trends based on current fertility and death rates,
immigration patterns and projections. These projections include an assumption
that the birth rate for Hispanic women, now 30 to 50 percent higher than the
national average, will decline as the women adopt values more common to the
national norm.

The researchers for the study forecast that the nation's population, which was
226.5 million in 1980, would rise to at least 248 million by 1990 and 267
million by 2000, a total increase of 18 percent.

Slight Rise in Black Population

The report said that blacks, who made up 11.5 percent of the population in 1980,
would make up 12.4 percent in 2000, or about 33.5 million. Hispanic residents,
who made up 6.4 percent of the population in 1980, are expected to make up at
least 8.6 percent in 2000, about 23 million. In addition, the study forecasts
that Asians and those in smaller ethnic categories, who made up 2.5 percent of
the population in 1980, will account for 4 percent in 2000, about 10.6 million.

Mr. Levy said the analysts found it hard to estimate future illegal emigration
from Mexico and Central and South America. He said the projections were based on
an estimate of 35,000 to 132,000 illegal Hispanic immigrants annually, but he
indicated that the figure might be overly conservative.

''If this assumption were more than tripled, to 500,000 annually,'' Mr. Levy
said, ''the Hispanic population would total 35 million in a nation of 280
million by the turn of the century.''

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (50%);



STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%);

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%);

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS
(50%);   CALIFORNIA, USA (94%);   LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%);

SUBJECT: POPULATION; FORECASTS; CULTURAL AND NATIONAL IDENTITY  POPULATION &
DEMOGRAPHICS (92%); POPULATION GROWTH (92%); TRENDS (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS
(90%); POPULATION ESTIMATES & PROJECTIONS (90%); POPULATION SIZE (90%);
FERTILITY RATES (89%); RESEARCH REPORTS (89%); WOMEN (89%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES
(89%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (89%); POPULATION DECLINE (78%); ETHNIC GROUPS
(78%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (78%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (78%); FERTILITY &
INFERTILITY (77%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (73%); IMMIGRATION (72%);

PERSON: STEPHEN R LEVY  (55%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              106 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 18, 1982, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

AFGHANS IN 'IMMIGRATION GULAG' DESERVE MERCY

SECTION: Section 4; Page 18, Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 400 words


To the Editor:

You are to be commended for editorializing (June 17) in favor of mercy for the
Haitian 53 being held in indefinite detention by the Immigration and
Naturalization Service at its jail in Brooklyn. Not mentioned, but just as
deserving, is the group of Afghan refugees also being detained.

here is no legitimate reason for the Immigration Service to keep the Afghans in
detention without provision for release on bond while they await action on their
requests for political asylum. These people, who fled from Russian domination
and persecution, have relatives here capable of supporting them while their
cases are pending and who are willing to post bond to guarantee their
appearance.

The Afghan refugees have been imprisoned for months at considerable expense to
the Government while the Immigration Service dawdles. One, Mohamad Walai, was
denied political asylum on May 14, 1982. On May 19 he petitioned the Board of
Immigration Appeals in Washington.

For the appeal to be heard, a transcript of the exclusion hearing is necessary.
It took the Immigration Service seven weeks to prepare the transcript. Upon
complaint to the service, the response was, ''Sorry, we have only one
transcriber for the Brooklyn detained cases.''

Upon complaint to the United States District Court, habeas corpus was denied and
the judge refused to order the service to quickly provide the transcript. He did
not want to interfere with the way the service processes its cases.

Also jailed are three brothers, one a teen-ager. On May 25, 1982, the Department
of State was requested to evaluate their applications for asylum. Fifty-five
days later there is still no response. The brothers wait, numbed, in jail for
proceedings that may take months or years to complete.

Refugees who are not charged with any crime are jailed indefinitely in Brooklyn.
The Federal courts provide no relief. It is time the public raised its voice
against the immigration gulag.  CHARLES ARONOWITZ New York, July 16, 1982

The writer is counsel for several of the Afghan refugees.

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (56%);

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%);

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%);

COMPANY: BOARD OF IMMIGRATION APPEALS  (56%); BOARD OF IMMIGRATION APPEALS
(56%);

ORGANIZATION: BOARD OF IMMIGRATION APPEALS  (56%); BOARD OF IMMIGRATION APPEALS
(56%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;AFGHANISTAN; UNITED STATES  UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (94%);

 RUSSIAN FEDERATION (56%);   NEW YORK, USA (94%);   NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%);

SUBJECT: REFUGEES AND EXPATRIATES; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION  IMMIGRATION
(93%); REFUGEES (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TRANSCRIPTS (90%); JAIL
SENTENCING (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); POLITICAL
ASYLUM (89%); BAIL (77%); HABEAS CORPUS (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); LAW
COURTS & TRIBUNALS (72%); JUDGES (68%); PETITIONS (68%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: letter

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              107 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 16, 1982, Friday, Late City Final Edition

RAIDS ON ALIENS RULED ILLEGAL

BYLINE: UPI

SECTION: Section A; Page 8, Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 254 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, July 15


A Federal appeals court ruled today that raids by agents of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service in attempts to apprehend illegal aliens at factories
violated constitutional protections against unreasonable searches.

The United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit ruled in favor of the
International Ladies Garment Workers Union, which charged in a suit that the
raids constituted an illegal ''detention of the entire work force.''

The immigration agents must be able to ''articulate a reasonable suspicion that
the questioned person is an alien illegally in this country'' before the worker
can be detained and questioned, the court said.

To rule otherwise, the court said, would allow immigration agents to stop and
interrogate suspected illegal aliens ''at whim'' and erode the privacy rights of
citizens and aliens legally in the country.

The decision invalidates a normal practice of the immigration agrency, which
sends agents into factories where illegal aliens are suspected of working.

The union brought the issue to the court after two garment factories in southern
California were raided by immigration agents in 1977 and 162 aliens were
arrested.

The three-member panel of the court of appeals rejected arguments by the
immigration agency that any intrusion was ''so slight'' that constitutional
protections against unreasonable search and seizures were not violated.

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%);

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%);

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%);

COMPANY: IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE  (91%); IMMIGRATION &
NATURALIZATION SERVICE (91%);

ORGANIZATION: IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE  (91%); IMMIGRATION &
NATURALIZATION SERVICE (91%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;SAN FRANCISCO (CALIF); CALIFORNIA; UNITED STATES  UNITED STATES
(94%);   CALIFORNIA, USA (94%);   SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%);

SUBJECT: DECISIONS AND VERDICTS; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; ILLEGAL ALIENS;
FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS; SEARCH AND SEIZURE  LITIGATION (96%);
IMMIGRATION (93%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (93%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (93%); APPEALS
COURTS (93%); APPEALS (92%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (91%); DECISIONS & RULINGS
(91%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (90%); SEARCH & SEIZURE (90%); GARMENT WORKERS (90%);
US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); VERDICTS (78%); CIVIL
RIGHTS (78%); APPAREL MFG (78%); WOMEN'S APPAREL MFG (78%); LABOR UNIONS (77%);
PRIVACY RIGHTS (73%); ARRESTS (71%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              108 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                July 13, 1982, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

U.S. SEEKS CHANGE IN CHECKS ON VISAS

BYLINE: By DUDLEY CLENDINEN, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 12, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 845 words

DATELINE: BOSTON, July 12


The Immigration and Naturalization Service is proposing to do one of its jobs
more effectively by giving the chore to private agencies, but the plan is
running into stiff opposition from some of the service's line officers and from
Congressmen and immigration lawyers who fear its implications.

The problem is keeping up with foreigners who have come to the United States on
student visas. There might be 10,000 such persons enrolled in the colleges and
universities clustered in Boston, or the number might be 15,000. Immigration
officers like Joel Dorfman cannot say for sure.

There may be 300,000 foreign students in the whole nation, or that number might
be 350,000. Or higher. Or lower. Washington officials of the service say they
aren't sure.

''That's a figure that's really unknown,'' said Janet Graham, a spokesman for
the service. ''They're constantly coming in and out.'' Tracking the movements of
the foreign students is tedious and difficult, in part because the job is not
being well done and in part because the officials think overworked officers like
Mr. Dorfman have more to do.

Shifting Duty to Schools

Under the immigration agency's proposed change, the schools would be given the
task of seeing whether foreigners with student visas are properly enrolled and
where they should be, and reporting to immigration officials.

The opposition of frustrated immigration officers is based on a worry that the
proposal would cede Federal authority to institutions, the schools, with a
vested interest in catering to the students they would be asked to oversee.

Largely unnoticed until it drew the attention of immigration officers here, the
proposal was published in the May 28 Federal Register, in 10 pages of small type
saying that the revisions ''would eliminate much burdensome paper work and
maintain control over the students by more effective use of institutional
sponsorship of the students by the schools.''

The student program ''benefits the American economy and those academic and
vocational schools which depend on foreign student enrollments as a major source
of tuition income,'' the service said.  ''This source becomes increasingly
important to those institutions as the domestic student population shrinks.''

Senator Paul E. Tsongas, Democrat of Massachusetts, on receiving complaints from
immigration lawyers and the American Federation of Government Employees about
the plan, wrote two weeks ago to Alan C.  Nelson, Commissioner of the
immigration agency.

''While I can appreciate the position of many schools throughout the United
States in wanting to administer their foreign student programs efficiently and
effectively,'' Mr. Tsongas wrote, ''I cannot, however, understand the underlying
purpose in taking away the auhority bestowed to a Federal agency and passing the
enforcement of the Immigration and Nationality Act'' to the private
institutions.

'Conflict of Interest' Debated

The Federation for American Immigration Reform, a public interest group in
Washington, wrote that it was, ''frankly, most baffled that the rules were
developed despite the acknowledged conflict of interest.''

Mr. Dorfman and officers of the government employee local have challenged what
they said was an assumption ''that neither school officials nor foreign students
require the discipline imposed by present regulations.''

''Working-level I.N.S. officers and line supervisors.'' they said, ''have much
experience suggesting that foreign students and schools are significant
violators of our immigration laws and that redoubled enforcement efforts, rather
than abrogation of responsibility by I.N.S., are in order.''

Such advisers to foreign students as Jennifer Stephens, whose office supervises
3,000 foreign students at Harvard University, regard as an insult the suggestion
that they would have a financial interest in allowing foreigners to abuse the
rules.

''I know most of my colleagues nationwide, and I certainly wouldn't agree,'' she
said with surprise Friday.  Thus joined is a dispute with practical and
philosophic sides.Immigration officials like Mr. Dorfman say that many
foreigners use student visas as a means of entering the country, working part
time in competition with American youths and lingering in search of some way to
stay on permanently. He sees the proposal as just another sign of the collapse
of enforcement.

The solution, said Eugene H. Smith, the foreign student adviser at the
University of Colorado, is to let the schools report whether students are in
complance with the rules or not, and let the immigration agency enforce the laws
against the students or against schools that do not report on their students.

''I think it's easier for them to monitor 5,000 schools than it is to monitor
500,000 students,'' said Mr. Smith.

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%);

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%);

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (94%);

COMPANY: IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE  (93%); IMMIGRATION &
NATURALIZATION SERVICE (93%);

ORGANIZATION: IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE  (93%); IMMIGRATION &
NATURALIZATION SERVICE (93%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES  UNITED STATES (96%);   MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%);
BOSTON, MA, USA (94%);

SUBJECT: REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; BUREAUCRATIC RED
TAPE  IMMIGRATION (93%); FOREIGN STUDENTS (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%);
LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (90%);
IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); CIVIL SERVICES (78%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (78%);
STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (76%); CITIZENSHIP LAW (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (71%);
COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (71%); VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL TRAINING (71%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              109 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 12, 1982, Monday, Late City Final Edition

MEXICAN HELD AS LEADER OF ALIEN SMUGGLING RING IS ARRAIGNED

BYLINE: Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 10, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 955 words

DATELINE: ALBUQUERQUE, N.M., July 11


Wearing a white embroidered Mexican shirt, Salvador Pineda-Vergara listened to a
reading in Spanish of a long indictment charging him with masterminding what the
Immigration and Naturalization Service says is the largest illegal alien
smuggling ring it has broken.

The reading took two hours as Mr. Pineda sat here Thursday before a Federal
magistrate, Robert McCoy, in the second round of arraignments of 38 persons
charged with conspiracy to transport illegal aliens and transporting illegal
aliens.

The immigration agency charges that Mr. Pineda, a Mexican national who is 56
years old and the father of 10, headed an operation for four years that grossed
$24 million annually and brought an estimated 24,000 illegal aliens into the
United States each year. His indictment was among several announced June 23.

Mr. Pineda is being held here under $1 million bond, which the immigration
agency says is the highest bail ever set in an illegal aliens smuggling case.
The 48 counts against him carry total fines of more than $100,000 and prison
sentences of up to 240 years.

Not Guilty Plea Entered

Mr. Pineda stood mute, and Judge McCoy entered a plea of not guilty for him. The
defendant also filed an affidavit of indigency, and the judge named a lawyer to
defend him. Trials in the case will begin in the fall.

''Getting Pineda will shut down this entire operation,'' said H.C.  Murphy, a
criminal investigator in the immigration agency's Albuquerque office. ''There
are people with the skills to take it over, but no one has Pineda's skills. He
could have made money legally.''

Mr. Pineda has never commented publicly on the charges.  The smuggling
operation, which the officials said made a profit of $12 million to $15 million
a year, was broken when undercover immigration agents posing as drivers
infiltrated the ring after the Illinois Highway Patrol intercepted a car full of
illegal aliens on the way to Chicago last July. Mr. Pineda was arrested in El
Paso when he went to a Western Union office to pick up payments for transporting
some of the aliens, the immigration agency said.

According to immigration officials, the operation was called the ''Villasana''
or ''safe way,'' after the small hotel in Ciudad Juarez where the aliens were
kept before crossing into El Paso with the normal daily traffic. From there they
were moved by teams of drivers into a network of safe houses, motels and trains
in New Mexico and on to Middle Western cities, particularly Chicago.

$650 to $1,700 Fee Charged

The operation charged Mexican nationals $650 and Central and South American
residents $1,600 to $1,700, according to the immigration agency.

New Mexico was the distribution area for the network because highways and Amtrak
service are good, Mr. Murphy said. In addition, the border patrol is more active
in Texas, leaving New Mexico relatively unattended, and law enforcement there
tends to be scattered because of the rugged country.

Mr. Murphy said his agency hoped to indict many more participants in the ring,
although he would not estimate the number.  He said two routes, overland and by
Amtrak, were used in the operation. In the overland route, he said, aliens were
driven circuitously, to avoid border patrol checkpoints, from El Paso to Silver
City, a remote mining town on the edge of the Gila National Forest in
southwestern New Mexico. There, they were transferred to other cars and the
drivers headed north.

In the Amtrak route, aliens were driven north from El Paso on Interstate 25 to
the farming and commuting town of Belen, 30 miles south of Albuquerque. There
they were transferred to other cars and taken to the Amtrak station at Lamy, a
hamlet of 100 people near Santa Fe, to board the daily train to Chicago.

''It's a long way for us to go,'' Mr. Murphy said, alluding to Lamy. ''It's
impossible to put surveillance on the damned place.''

Slipped Easily Through Towns

Along both routes, runners accompanied the aliens and spotters kept watch for
law-enforcement officials. The groups of aliens slipped easily through the
towns, many of which are predominantly Hispanic American.

Danny J. Gabaldon, assistant police chief of Belen, said that the townspeople's
attitude toward illegal aliens was a mixture of hostility and sympathy. Many
just looked the other way as the aliens passed through. The immigration agency
noted that that was not a violation of any law.

Donald Sandoval, a reporter with The Valencia County News-Bulletin in Belen,
said he knew illegal aliens had worked on local ranches for years, doing jobs
that he said Americans would not do. ''People here accept them,'' he said.

Helen Welkenback, manager of the nine-room Rancho Verde Motel, one of two where
Mr. Murphy said aliens were sheltered, said she suspected it was used for such
purposes. But, she said: ''I'm here to rent rooms. I can't refuse anybody.
They're very quiet people; no trouble with them at all.''

William Rodriguez, the ticket agent at Lamy, paid scant attention to the illegal
aliens boarding trains to Chicago at his station. ''To me, it's all the same,''
he said. ''I just sell tickets. They got money, I'll give them a ticket.''

Robin Doughman, a local contractor, said, ''The whole town's been aware for
years of shady dealings.'' He said residents never notified the authorities
because ''people mind their own business and don't pay attention.''

TICKER: WU (NYSE) (53%);

INDUSTRY: NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE
ACTIVITIES (53%); NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (50%); SIC4011 RAILROADS,
LINE-HAUL OPERATING (50%);

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); MEXICO (94%);

STATE: NEW MEXICO, USA (95%); TEXAS, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (91%);

CITY: ALBUQUERQUE, NM, USA (94%); EL PASO, TX, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA
(91%);

COMPANY: WESTERN UNION CO  (53%); WESTERN UNION CO (53%); NATIONAL RAILROAD
PASSENGER CORP (AMTRAK) (50%);   IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE  (91%);
IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE (91%);

ORGANIZATION: IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE  (91%); IMMIGRATION &
NATURALIZATION SERVICE (91%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; ALBUQUERQUE (NM); MEXICO  UNITED STATES (95%);
MEXICO (94%);   NEW MEXICO, USA (95%); TEXAS, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (91%);
ALBUQUERQUE, NM, USA (94%); EL PASO, TX, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (91%);

SUBJECT: ILLEGAL ALIENS; SMUGGLING; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION  ILLEGAL
IMMIGRANTS (95%); SMUGGLING (94%); IMMIGRATION (93%); ALIEN SMUGGLING (93%);
ORGANIZED CRIME (92%); INDICTMENTS (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LAW
ENFORCEMENT (89%); IMMIGRATION LAW (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%);
MAGISTRATES (77%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (76%); ARRESTS (73%); BAIL (73%);
CONSPIRACY (73%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (73%); BORDER CONTROL (72%);
SENTENCING (71%); POLICE FORCES (68%); JAIL SENTENCING (67%); INVESTIGATIONS
(64%); HOTELS & MOTELS (60%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: photo of Salvador Pineda-Vergara

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              110 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 11, 1982, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

ARGENTINA'S 'SEVERELY DILUTED NATIONAL CHARACTER'

SECTION: Section 4; Page 22, Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 307 words


To the Editor:

It appears that Argentina's malaise (''Argentina Ungoverned Again,'' editorial
June 19) could be deeply rooted in a severely diluted national character.

In the 50 years prior to World War I, there was a massive immigration of 2.5
million Europeans; over half of these people were Italian. The Argentine
population in 1869 was 1.8 million.

Although this heavy inflow has continued in recent decades, a large number of
resident aliens never applied for citizenship and have tended to regard
themselves as something else first and Argentine second. This pattern has been
noted by the writer, Jorge Luis Borges, and many non-Argentine observers as
well.

Lord Bryce came to the conclusion in 1912 that the Argentine people ''have
ceased to be Spaniards without becoming something new of their own. They seem to
be a nation in the making, not yet made.''

John Gunther observantly noted during the 1960's that Argentina ''for all of its
basic wealth, prestige, intense national pride and degree of civilization ...
gives a sense not merely of lack of direction but of outright lostness. National
purpose, faith and a sense of mission seem to have disappeared.''

When the Peronists returned to power in Argentina in 1973, they called on all
sectors of the populace to join in a social pact (Acta del Compromiso Nacional)
to make the sacrifices required for the commonweal.

But by mid-1974, greedy self-interest had prevailed over the common good and the
pact was in a shambles due to these ''sacrifices.'' Businessmen resorted to
widespread black-market activities and used double bookkeeping systems to
circumvent the price freeze and the tax collectors. And the powerful trade
unions obtained large periodic wage increases amid a deep recession and soaring
inflation.
ELLIOT A. MARCUS, Lawrence, Mass., June 22, 1982

TICKER: APAGF (NASDAQ) (90%);

COUNTRY: ARGENTINA (99%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); FALKLAND ISLANDS (MALVINAS)
(79%); SPAIN (70%);

COMPANY: APCO ARGENTINA INC (90%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;ARGENTINA; GREAT BRITAIN; FALKLAND ISLANDS  ARGENTINA (99%); UNITED
KINGDOM (79%); FALKLAND ISLANDS (MALVINAS) (79%); SPAIN (70%);

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES;
POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT  LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%);
IMMIGRATION (77%); NATURALIZATION (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%);
EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WORLD WAR I (72%); CITIZENSHIP (56%); LABOR UNIONS
(50%);

PERSON: JORGE LUIS BORGES  (57%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              111 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                July 10, 1982, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

AROUND THE NATION;
Relief Agencies to Get Interviews with Haitians

BYLINE: UPI

SECTION: Section 1; Page 6, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 66 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Sept. 6


Immigration and Naturalization Service officials said today they had reached an
agreement with relief agencies to permit them to enter refugee camps in six
states and Puerto Rico to begin screening 1,850 Haitians for eventual release.

Federal District Judge Eugene Spellman ruled on June 25 that the Haitians should
be freed.

COUNTRY: HAITI (95%); PUERTO RICO (94%);

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (52%);

COMPANY: IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE  (93%); IMMIGRATION &
NATURALIZATION SERVICE (93%);

ORGANIZATION: IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE  (93%); IMMIGRATION &
NATURALIZATION SERVICE (93%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;HAITI  HAITI (95%); PUERTO RICO (94%);   MIAMI, FL, USA (52%);

SUBJECT: REFUGEES AND EXPATRIATES  REFUGEES (92%); IMMIGRATION (91%); RELIEF
ORGANIZATIONS (90%); REFUGEE & RELIEF CAMPS (90%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              112 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                July 8, 1982, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

AROUND THE NATION;
Decline Is Suspected In Illegal Immigration

BYLINE: UPI

SECTION: Section A; Page 12, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 157 words

DATELINE: SAN YSIDRO, Calif., July 7


United States immigration officials, puzzled by an apparent drop in illegal
immigration from Mexico, speculated today that devaluation of the peso might be
partly responsible.

Gene Wood, chief of the Chula Vista

National news is on pages

A12-14, B8-15 and B17.
Sector of the Federal Border Patrol, said, ''Smugglers traditionally insist upon
payment in dollars. It now takes more pesos to buy dollars. That may be a
factor.''

Through June, 171,559 aliens have been arrested in the Chula Vista Sector, which
includes San Diego. The arrests are down by 28,212, or 14 percent, from the same
period last year, and officials said it could mean fewer illegal aliens were
trying to sneak into the United States. A comparable decline has been noted
along the Texas border.

But Mr. Wood cautioned the figures might not reflect a trend.''The decline is
fairly recent, and may be a fluke,'' he said.

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); MEXICO (95%);

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (79%);

CITY: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MEXICO; UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES  UNITED STATES (96%); MEXICO
(95%);   CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (79%);   SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%);

SUBJECT: ILLEGAL ALIENS; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; CURRENCY  ILLEGAL
IMMIGRANTS (94%); IMMIGRATION (92%); DEVALUATION (90%); CURRENCIES (90%);
TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (88%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (88%); US DOLLAR (88%);
SMUGGLING (88%); BORDER CONTROL (88%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (88%);
ARRESTS (86%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              113 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                July 3, 1982, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

Around the Nation;
Judge Gives U.S. 90 Days To Alter Haitian Policy

BYLINE: UPI

SECTION: Section 1; Page 6, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 154 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, July 2


A Federal district judge ruled today that the Government could detain newly
arriving illegal aliens in the next 90 days because there was a ''meaningful
concern'' that thousands of Haitians might flood into Florida if there was no
deterrent.

Judge Eugene Spellman agreed to the three-month grace period to give the
Government time to write a new immigration policy. On June 18 he struck down the
policy of detaining Haitians while they awaited hearings on political asylum.

Judge Spellman said that an affidavit by Gov. Bob Graham, asserting that 20,000
to 40,000 Haitians were in the Bahamas, showed a ''meaningful concern of
irreparable harm'' to Florida if there was a massive influx.

Judge Spellman's decision will not affect the 1,900 Haitians he ordered released
11 days after his ruling on the policy. That decision is expected to be appealed
by the Government.

COUNTRY: HAITI (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); BAHAMAS (79%);

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (94%);

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (93%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; FLORIDA; HAITI  HAITI (95%); UNITED STATES (94%);
BAHAMAS (79%);   FLORIDA, USA (94%);   MIAMI, FL, USA (93%);

SUBJECT: DECISIONS AND VERDICTS; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; REFUGEES AND
EXPATRIATES  LITIGATION (91%); JUDGES (91%); IMMIGRATION (90%); SETTLEMENTS &
DECISIONS (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); VERDICTS (88%); PUBLIC POLICY (88%);
REFUGEES (70%); POLITICAL ASYLUM (70%);

PERSON: BOB GRAHAM (57%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              114 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                July 1, 1982, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

AROUND THE NATION;
U.S. Says Chinese Dancer Met Immigration Aides

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 12, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 86 words

DATELINE: JACKSON, Miss., June 30


A 24-year-old Chinese dancer met with immigration officials after disappearing
from an international ballet competition here, but the authorities do not know
his whereabouts, a State Department spokesman said today.

Dean Fischer, a department spokesman in Washington, said that the dancer, Lin
Jianwei, talked Tuesday with officials of the Immigration and Naturalization
Service in New Orleans ''regarding his desire to remain in the United States.''

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (79%);

STATE: MISSISSIPPI, USA (94%); LOUISIANA, USA (92%);

CITY: JACKSON, MS, USA (93%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%);

COMPANY: IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE  (57%); IMMIGRATION &
NATURALIZATION SERVICE (57%);

ORGANIZATION: IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE  (57%); IMMIGRATION &
NATURALIZATION SERVICE (57%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; MISSISSIPPI  UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (79%);
MISSISSIPPI, USA (94%); LOUISIANA, USA (92%);   JACKSON, MS, USA (93%); NEW
ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%);

SUBJECT: REFUGEES AND EXPATRIATES; DANCING; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; CHINA
IMMIGRATION (93%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); DANCE COMPANIES
(90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); REFUGEES (85%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              115 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 27, 1982, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

Haitian Detainee Dies

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 26, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 44 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, June 26


Solange Eliodor, a 26-year-old Haitian at the Krome Avenue Detention Facility
for refugees, died today after she had had a long battle with tuberculosis, the
Immigration and Naturalization Service reported today.

COUNTRY: HAITI (95%); UNITED STATES (90%);

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (90%);

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (90%);

COMPANY: IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE  (91%); IMMIGRATION &
NATURALIZATION SERVICE (91%);

ORGANIZATION: IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE  (91%); IMMIGRATION &
NATURALIZATION SERVICE (91%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;HAITI; MIAMI (FLA)  HAITI (95%); UNITED STATES (90%);   FLORIDA,
USA (90%);   MIAMI, FL, USA (90%);

SUBJECT: REFUGEES AND EXPATRIATES  IMMIGRATION (91%); REFUGEES (90%); DEATHS &
OBITUARIES (90%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              116 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                June 26, 1982, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

Around the Nation;
Relief Agencies Prepare For Haitians' Release

BYLINE: UPI

SECTION: Section 1; Page 9, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 118 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, June 25


Relief agencies adopted a plan today to resettle 1,910 Haitian refugees,
expressing confidence that a Federal district judge would order their release
from United States detention centers on Tuesday.

Relief workers wanted to start the preliminary work today by interviewing some
of the 480 Haitians held at Miami's Krome Avenue center, but Immigration and
Naturalization Service officials denied them entry.

The program adopted by relief agencies included interviews to determine the
whereabouts of relatives and the refugees' level of job skills as well as plans
to link them with lawyers who could represent them free of charge.

COUNTRY: HAITI (97%); UNITED STATES (94%);

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (94%);

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (94%);

COMPANY: IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE  (58%); IMMIGRATION &
NATURALIZATION SERVICE (58%);

ORGANIZATION: IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE  (58%); IMMIGRATION &
NATURALIZATION SERVICE (58%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;FLORIDA  HAITI (97%); UNITED STATES (94%);   FLORIDA, USA (94%);
MIAMI, FL, USA (94%);

SUBJECT: REFUGEES AND EXPATRIATES  IMMIGRANT DETENTION CENTERS (90%); RELIEF
ORGANIZATIONS (90%); REFUGEES (90%); JUDGES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%);
IMMIGRATION (86%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              117 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 25, 1982, Friday, Late City Final Edition

FLEEING BEIRUT CHAOS TO SAFETY AT SEA

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 966 words

DATELINE: JUNIEH, Lebanon, June 24


Hundreds of Americans, Western Europeans and Lebanese with American immigration
papers were evacuated by a transport ship of the Sixth Fleet today, just hours
after the American Embassy in western Beirut closed down.

Two large American Navy landing craft ferried the evacuees from the docks of the
port of this Christian-controlled harbor 15 miles north of Beirut. The craft
took them out to sea, where the Navy transport Nashville waited in the
Mediterranean haze to sail them to Cyprus. (In a separate operation, according
to The Associated Press, the British merchant vessel Royal Prince also docked at
Junieh to pick up evacuees.)

An American vice consul, Lisa Piascik, said 154 American citizens and their
dependents originally had been granted places on the American transport ship,
along with 144 Lebanese citizens holding green cards that allow them to work in
the United States and 90 other Lebanese who were ''of interest'' to the embassy.

At the last minute, however, scores of other Lebanese, Western Europeans and
Americans showed up at the docks and were permitted to board the landing craft.

650 Board U.S. Vessel

About 650 people were eventually taken to the American shipt, but it was
impossible to determine all their nationalities.  (The State Department said
embassy operations had been transferred to Ambassador Robert Dillon's residence
in Yarze, five miles southeast of Beirut, near the presidential palace in
Baabda. The department said the evacuation was voluntary.)

The scene on the pier was one of controlled chaos. An understaffed American
Embassy crew, short on both information and tempers, shouted instructions
through a bullhorn to the jittery throng waiting to board the vessels. Mothers
clutched their babies, teen-agers lounged on bulging suitcases, old women fanned
themselves with newspapers and everyone complained about everything in a
cacophony of languages.

Evidence of War Nearby

While the evacuees registered for passage, Israeli jets were busy blasting
Syrian gun positions in the hills a few miles to the southeast and Israeli
warships were bombarding western Beirut, from where most of the people here had
fled only hours earlier.

A few hundred yards away, a water skier zipped through the harbor and on the
beach bikini-clad Lebanese Christian women, glistening with suntan oil, took in
the whole tableau with disinterest.

The stories told by the departing Americans painted a vivid picture of the
anarchy that has gripped western Beirut and the bitterness felt by many of them
over what they see as Washington's unwillingness to restrain Israel.

''I was shocked and disgusted at how ruthless the Israelis have behaved,'' said
Carolyn Aliah, a 40-year-old Maryland native who is married to a Lebanese
engineer. ''The Israelis obviously have a goal in mind and don't care what is
between them and that goal. I just want to get out of their path.''

But just getting out of the way has become difficult. To get across the Green
Line dividing predominantly Moslem western Beirut, where some 2,000 Americans
once lived, from the Christian eastern section of the city, travelers have to
pass through four checkpoints of armed men in a space of two hundred yards.

One checkpoint is manned by the remnants of the Syrian army in Beirut, another
by Moslem leftists, a third by the Lebanese army and the last by the Christian
Phalangist militia.

''When we passed through the Syrian checkpoint coming here,'' said Tasha
Loufland, 19, of Los Angeles, ''the Syrians gave my dad a hard time about his
ID. They thought he was an Israeli spy.'' Her father teaches courses in theater
arts at Beirut Arab University.

Most of those heading for the Nashville, anchored about three miles off the
coast, were American women who had left their Lebanese husbands behind to
protect their property in western Beirut. They have had to make the choice of
staying in a city where car bombings and artillery bursts are common or fleeing,
with the risk that their homes may be occupied by the thousands of refugees
roaming the streets.

Woman Was Evacuated Twice Before

''My husband just wouldn't leave the house,'' said Eleyan Rifai, 37, an English
teacher at the American Community School, who is married to a Lebanese. ''My son
has not been able to go outside for two weeks. If it wasn't the Israeli planes,
it was the car bombs.''

Mrs. Rifai is no stranger to such evacuations, having been rescued by the
American Navy from Beirut in the 1975 civil war and from Teheran by the Air
Force in 1979. ''My family in Philadelphia asked me to tell them where I was
going next so they could be sure not to be there,'' she quipped.

Also familiar with evacuations was Mildred Hijazi, 62, of Niagara Falls, N.Y.
She left Cairo in 1956 with the help of the American Government and fled Beirut
in 1967, 1975 and today.

''They're all pretty much the same, Mrs. Hijazi said of the evacuations,
''crying babies and confusion.'' Myrna Mugrdichian, a 25-year-old dental student
whose father is a doctor at the American University Hospital, has been working
as a volunteer with the Lebanese Red Cross, pulling people out of the rubble of
collapsed buildings.

''We would listen for people's moans and that is where we would start digging,''
she said, explaining the rescuers' technique. ''I saw a lot of people in pieces
in the last few weeks.''

Teen-agers among the evacuees talked of the fighting with the aplomb of battle
veterans.  ''You get used to it,'' said Nina Ibrahim, a 15-year-old whose father
works at the American University Hospital. ''What bothered my dad was the
sniping around the university, but what bothered me most was that our school
year ended just like that. All my friends just scattered. No prom, no graduation
ceremony. No nothing.''

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); ISRAEL (95%); LEBANON (94%); EUROPE (94%);
MEDITERRANEAN (90%); CYPRUS (79%); SYRIA (79%);

STATE: MEDITERRANEAN SEA (92%); TENNESSEE, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (79%);

CITY: BEIRUT, LEBANON (94%); NASHVILLE, TN, USA (92%);

COMPANY: ASSOCIATED PRESS (57%);   US NAVY (91%);

ORGANIZATION: US NAVY (91%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; BEIRUT (LEBANON); LEBANON; ISRAEL, STATE OF  UNITED
STATES (99%); ISRAEL (95%); LEBANON (94%); EUROPE (94%); MEDITERRANEAN (90%);
CYPRUS (79%); SYRIA (79%);   MEDITERRANEAN SEA (92%); TENNESSEE, USA (92%);
MARYLAND, USA (79%);   BEIRUT, LEBANON (94%); NASHVILLE, TN, USA (92%);

SUBJECT: FOREIGN SERVICE; UNITED STATE INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ARMAMENT,
DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES  EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (93%); IMMIGRATION (92%);
MARINE VESSELS (90%); NAVIES (90%); NAVAL VESSELS (78%); PASSPORTS & VISAS
(78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS &
FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); BEACHES (71%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: Photo of evacuees boarding ship (page 8) Photo of U.S.
citizens and others boarding ship

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              118 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 25, 1982, Friday, Late City Final Edition

Judge to Decide on Haitians

BYLINE: UPI

SECTION: Section A; Page 19, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 79 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, June 24


After lawyers failed to agree. a Federal judge said today that he would decide
how and when nearly 2,000 Haitian refugees should be released from detention
centers across the country. Judge Eugene Spellman of the Federal district court
said his ruling would be made public Tuesday. He said conferences between
lawyers for the Immigration and Naturalization Service and those representing
the Haitian refugees had deadlocked.

COUNTRY: HAITI (96%); UNITED STATES (79%);

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (53%);

COMPANY: IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE  (57%); IMMIGRATION &
NATURALIZATION SERVICE (57%);

ORGANIZATION: IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE  (57%); IMMIGRATION &
NATURALIZATION SERVICE (57%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES  HAITI (96%); UNITED STATES (79%);   MIAMI, FL, USA
(53%);

SUBJECT: FOREIGN POPULATION AND FOREIGN DESCENT GROUPS; IMMIGRATION AND
EMIGRATION; REFUGEES AND EXPATRIATES; PRISONS AND PRISONERS  JUDGES (91%);
REFUGEES (90%); LAWYERS (88%); IMMIGRATION (87%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (86%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              119 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 25, 1982, Friday, Late City Final Edition

'DECEITFUL NEW GAMBIT' IN HAITIAN REFUGEE POLICY

SECTION: Section A; Page 30, Column 3; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 729 words


To the Editor:

A deceitful new gambit has been played in the Government's Haitian refugee
strategy. On June 14, the one-year anniversary of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service's Haitian refugee detention policy, the Justice
Department announced its readiness to release on parole some of the 2,000
Haitian political asylum applicants languishing in Federal prisons and I.N.S.
jails around the country.v.ithin hours, the news had spread even to those jails,
and the months of lawsuits, legislative initiatives and just simple begging and
pleading seemed happily ended.

The plan, announced to the press in Washington and in the courtroom of a Federal
judge in Miami, offered freedom to those Haitians who (1) were represented by
attorneys; (2) had responsible sponsors; (3) gave assurances of appearances at
future proceedings in their cases.

For most of the detained Haitian boat people, because they have no lawyers, the
offer of parole was, at best, a distant hope. For at least the 53 Haitians who
have been ill-kept at the I.N.S.'s Brooklyn Navy Yard since last summer, all of
whom met the announced criteria, it seemed only a matter of days until freedom
could be arranged.

It was, instead, a cruel and indecent joke. No Government spokesman announced,
on June 14 in Washington or Miami, the Catch-22 in the plan: Persons who
otherwise meet the release criteria but whose asylum cases have already been
presented to an immigration judge are not eligible for parole. While their
legitimate appeals are awaiting decision by immigration authorities, those
Haitians will continue in jail.

This situation is nearly a replay of an earlier litigation in which a Fed-eral
court found that I.N.S. had systematically tried Haitian cases in a fashion
intended ''to achieve expedited mass deportations of Haitian nationals,
irrespective of the merits of an individual Haitian asylum application and
without regard to the ...  rights'' of those aliens. Indeed, any Haitian freed
under the plan whose case is hereafter heard and, as is inevitable, not won at
the trial level, will be swept up and put behind barbed wire again while his or
her appeal is being considered. This determination prospectively to deny the
liberty of persons whose cases are on appeal is specific only to Haitians as a
national-origin group and represents a radical departure from the norm.

It has become clear that virtually none among the Haitians are eligible to take
advantage of the release offer. Those without attorneys do not satisfy the basic
requirement of representation in the plan. Those few with attorneys have already
presented their cases and have filed appeals.

The Haitian parole plan is as senseless as it is cruel and discriminatory. For a
year the Government has decried the lack of lawyers available to represent the
Haitian boat people and I.N.S.'s inability to move the cases to hearing and
toward a conclusion. Only in New York City was it possible, by the end of August
of 1981, to find lawyers for 100 percent of the Haitians jailed in that
community. For our efforts, though, because we moved our clients' cases along to
hearings, as we have equally responsibly taken those cases up on appeal, our
clients will remain cut off from the community they know and which stands eager
to receive them.

The lesson the Attorney General has given to the lawyers will not soon be
forgotten: our professional, responsible behavior has cost our clients their
liberty. Had we simply allowed I.N.S. to foot the detention bill, had we done
nothing for a year to offer our services in representation of our clients, we
could now come forward and secure their freedom. We have learned the lesson at
great cost to the Haitian refugees we represent who remain imprisoned by the
senseless and discriminatory Haitian policy that one year ago greeted them on
their arrival in the United States.  HARRIET RABB New York, June 16, 1982

The writer is director of the Immigration Law Clinic at Columbia Law School and
represents six detained Haitians.

COUNTRY: HAITI (96%); UNITED STATES (93%);

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%);

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%);

COMPANY: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE  (58%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (58%);

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE  (58%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (58%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;HAITI; UNITED STATES  HAITI (96%); UNITED STATES (93%);   NEW YORK,
USA (79%);   NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%);

SUBJECT: REFUGEES AND EXPATRIATES; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION  IMMIGRATION
(91%); REFUGEES (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PRISONS (90%); PAROLE (90%);
POLITICAL ASYLUM (90%); LAWYERS (89%); IMMIGRATION LAW (89%); LAW COURTS &
TRIBUNALS (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); DEPORTATION (78%); DECISIONS &
RULINGS (76%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (75%); JUDGES (75%); EDITORIALS &
OPINIONS (74%); ANNIVERSARIES (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (72%); NAVIES (68%);
APPEALS (64%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: letter

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              120 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 25, 1982, Friday, Late City Final Edition

NEWS SUMMARY;
News Summary;
FRIDAY, JUNE 25, 1982

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 923 words


International
The P.L.O. is finished in Lebanon, according to a faction leader who has been
the main leftist ally of the Palestinian guerrillas in Beirut. Walid Jumblat, a
leader of the Druse, told reporters that the guerrilla group ''is outdated - it
is over.'' In the fighting, Israeli jets continued attacking the positions of
the Palestinian guerrillas trapped in Beirut. (Page A1, Col. 6.)
The evacuation of hundreds of Americans and Lebanese with American immigration
papers was carried out by a transport ship of the Sixth Fleet hours after the
American Embassy in Beirut closed. At the 11th hour, scores of other Americans,
Lebanese and Western Europeans arrived at the docks in the Mediterranean port of
Junieh and were also taken aboard. (A1:3-5.)
Israel's strategy in Lebanon was reported by a senior official. He said that the
Government had decided to hold to its decision not to enter west Beirut but to
review the decision today. The special American envoy, Philip C. Habib, is
expected to arrive in Jerusalem today with a plan for the formation of a strong
Lebanese Government that could cope with the Palestinian guerrillas. (A7:4-6.)
Soviet leaders seek an arms accord and a reduction in tensions with the West, in
the view of Edward L. Rowny, the chief American negotiator to the talks on
curbing strategic arms that open next week. (A3:4-6.)
The first French astronaut to fly in space is Jean-Loup Chretien, a 43-year-old
Russian-speaking colonel. Soviet television relayed live his liftoff into earth
orbit with two Soviet astronauts aboard a spacecraft from the space center in
Kazakhstan. (A9:1-4.)
Discrimination against U.S. troops in West Germany has caused rising concern at
Seventh Army headquarters, which acknowledges that bias has been increasing in
bars, clubs and discotheques. Many soldiers have reacted indignantly to a report
that a Pentagon official said some allies wanted fewer black soldiers stationed
in Europe.  (A2:3-6.)
National
''Absolute Presidential immunity'' from damage suits for any official action
taken while in office was upheld by the Supreme Court. The 5-to-4 decision
overturned a lower court ruling in a suit against former President Richard M.
Nixon. In a companion 8-to-1 ruling, the Justices broadened the ''qualified
immunity'' that applies to most Federal and state officials, making it
substantially more likely that courts would dismiss suits against them before
trial. (A1:1.)
Organized labor was upheld in another decision by the Supreme Court.  The
Justices ruled, 6 to 3, that Federal courts may not prohibit politically
motivated work stoppages. (A13:2-4.)
Three of the Hinckley trial jurors who found the defendant not guilty by reason
of insanity said in Senate testimony that they would have found him both guilty
and mentally ill if they had been given that option. The three were among five
jurors who indicated they had not fully understood the judge's instructions on
the crucial issue of whether John W. Hinckley Jr. was insane at the time he shot
President Reagan and three other men. (A10:1.)
The planned equal rights amendment has no chance of being ratified by the
required three additional states by next Wednesday's deadline, leading
proponents of the proposal conceded. However, they vowed to continue the
struggle against sexual discrimination by electing equal rights backers to state
legislatures and by suing large corporations that practice such discrimination.
(A1:1-3.)
A key money bill was vetoed by President Reagan. He critized as inflationary and
preferential the $8.9 billion urgent supplemental appropriation that contained
$3 billion for housing subsidies. The veto was easily upheld in the
Democratic-controlled House by a vote of 253 to 151. (B14:1-3.)
Increasing desert fissures in Arizona are alarming residents, officials and
geologists. The jagged cracks, often several miles long and very deep, are a
direct consequence of the state's rapid growth in recent decades. They are
caused by widespread pumping of water from underground aquifers to irrigate arid
farmland or to meet the rising demands of urban users for a reliable water
supply. (A1:5-6.)
Metropolitan
A redistricting plan drawn by the State Legislature and rejected by the Justice
Department generated new controversy. Leaders of black and Hispanic groups said
that parts of the Federal order designed to increase minority members'
representation in Congress and the Legislature might have the opposite effect.
(A1:2.)
610 pounds of cocaine were seized by Federal agents on Long Island after more
than 100 law-enforcement officers staked out at Brookhaven Airport witnessed the
drug being delivered by a plane from Colombia.  Four men were arrested on
charges of drug trafficking. The pure cocaine was estimated by officials to have
a street value of $200 million. (A1:2.)
The largest Police Academy class in New York City's history graduated in an
emotional ceremony at Madison Square Garden. The class totals nearly 2,500 men
and women, but much of their feeling was directed toward a classmate who was
seriously wounded by a gunman on June 1 and has spent most of the time since in
a hospital. The rookie, Ronald Simpson, sat among the spectators. (B3:3-6.)

Business Digest, Page Page D1

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); LEBANON (94%); ISRAEL (94%); PALESTINIAN
TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); EUROPE (91%); KAZAKHSTAN (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%);

 MEDITERRANEAN (73%); GERMANY (72%);

STATE: EARTH (73%);

CITY: BEIRUT, LEBANON (94%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%);

COMPANY: NEW YORK JETS (58%);

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK JETS (58%);

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); LEBANON (94%); ISRAEL (94%); PALESTINIAN
TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); EUROPE (91%); KAZAKHSTAN (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%);

 MEDITERRANEAN (73%); GERMANY (72%);   EARTH (73%);   BEIRUT, LEBANON (94%);
JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%);

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS  NEWS BRIEFS (93%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%);
DECISIONS & RULINGS (88%); SPACE EXPLORATION (86%); ARMED FORCES (85%); LAW
COURTS & TRIBUNALS (84%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (79%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT
(75%); IMMIGRATION (74%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (74%); IMMUNITY (73%); WAR &
CONFLICT (73%); SUPREME COURTS (72%); ARMIES (71%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT
(70%); STRIKES (69%); SUITS & CLAIMS (69%); US PRESIDENTS (67%); MILITARY
WEAPONS (64%); SPACECRAFT (63%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (51%); LABOR UNIONS
(50%);

PERSON: RICHARD NIXON (51%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: summary

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              121 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                June 24, 1982, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

BIG RING SMUGGLING ALIENS REPORTED BROKEN

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 18, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 421 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 23


Undercover immigration agents have smashed a smuggling ring that was responsible
for bringing 24,000 aliens a year into the United States from Mexico and seven
other countries, Federal officials said today.

Alan C. Nelson, commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization Service, said
the ring had been operating for four and a half years and was the largest ever
broken by the service. He said it grossed $24 million a year and had a profit of
$12 million to $15 million.

A Federal grand jury in Albuquerque, N.M., today indicted 38 people who were
said to be members of the ring. They were charged with conspiracy to transport
illegal aliens and 47 counts of actually transporting aliens.

As of tonight, the authorities said, 18 of the defendants had been arrested,
including Salvador Pineda Vergara, described as the ringleader, a Mexican
citizen and operator of the Hotel Villasana in Juarez, Mexico. The Villasana was
one of six hotels in Mexico used as staging points for the smuggling operations,
Mr. Nelson said.

Immigration officials said Mr. Pineda was arrested on Monday in El Paso at a
Western Union station where he had gone to pick up payment for transporting a
group of illegal aliens. The officials said Mr.  Pineda had a card allowing
across the border at will.

The conspiracy count carries a maximum penalty of five years in prison and a
$10,000 fine. The smuggling count carries a maximum penalty of five years in
prison and a $2,000 fine.

The undercover immigration agents worked as drivers for the Pineda organization
in an investigation begun in July 1981 after the Illinois state police
intercepted a group of aliens on their way to Chicago, according to Mr. Nelson.
Immigration officials said that some 16,000 aliens a year were taken to Chicago
by the group.

Immigration officials said 5,500 additional Mexicans a year and 3,400 other
aliens were shipped to other points, including sites in California, Michigan,
New York, New Jersey, Wisconsin, Illinois, Colorado, Kansas, Missouri, Wyoming
and Indiana.

Joseph Salgado, Assistant Commissioner for enforcement in the immigration
service, declined to say how the aliens had been brought across the United
States border or exactly where.

Mr. Nelson said the other countries from which aliens were brought were
Colombia, Peru, Ecuador, Guatemala, Honduras, El Salvador and the Dominican
Republic.

TICKER: WU (NYSE) (58%);

INDUSTRY: NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE
ACTIVITIES (58%);

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); MEXICO (97%); PERU (79%); HONDURAS (79%);
GUATEMALA (79%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%); EL SALVADOR (79%);

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); INDIANA,
USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); NEW
MEXICO, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%);

CITY: ALBUQUERQUE, NM, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (69%);

COMPANY: WESTERN UNION CO  (58%); WESTERN UNION CO (58%);   IMMIGRATION &
NATURALIZATION SERVICE  (58%); IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE (58%);

ORGANIZATION: IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE  (58%); IMMIGRATION &
NATURALIZATION SERVICE (58%);

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); MEXICO (97%); PERU (79%); HONDURAS (79%);
GUATEMALA (79%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%); EL SALVADOR (79%);   NEW JERSEY, USA
(79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA,
USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%);
MICHIGAN, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%);   ALBUQUERQUE, NM, USA (79%); CHICAGO,
IL, USA (69%);

SUBJECT: ILLEGAL ALIENS; SMUGGLING  SMUGGLING (96%); IMMIGRATION (93%);
ORGANIZED CRIME (92%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (92%); ALIEN SMUGGLING (90%);
CONSPIRACY (89%); IMMIGRATION LAW (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); POLICE
FORCES (77%); GRAND JURY (75%); ARRESTS (75%); JAIL SENTENCING (75%);
INDICTMENTS (75%); CRIMINAL FINES (75%); FINES & PENALTIES (70%); INVESTIGATIONS

 (69%); HOTELS & MOTELS (68%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              122 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 20, 1982, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

The Nation in Summary;
A Step Out Of Detention

BYLINE: By Caroline Rand Herron, Michael Wright and William C. Rhoden

SECTION: Section 4; Page 5, Column 5; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 231 words


In a decison that could significantly affect the Administration's immigration
policy, a Federal judge ruled last week that procedures under which Haitian
refugees have been detained violated the law. The judge, Eugene Spellman of
Federal District Court in Miami, stopped short of declaring the detention itself
illegal and discriminatory, but ordered a meeting for Wednesday, presumably to
determine release procedures.

Until May 1981, Haitians illegally entering the United States were screened for
medical problems into the custody of sponsors in the community. Then, the
Administration, saying the United States was ''losing control of its borders,''
began placing some Haitians in detention camps and stopping others at sea; 2,000
are now being held at camps in five states and Puerto Rico.

Judge Spellman ruled that ''when the Government changed its longstanding policy
of freely paroling Haitians to a policy of incarcerating them it did so in a
procedurally improper way'' because it did not give interested parties notice of
its anticipated action.  Two days before the ruling, the Administration
announced it would parole certain Haitians, provided they were represented by
individual counsel, had secured a sponsor in the community and could reasonably
assure the court that they would show up for scheduled hearings.

COUNTRY: HAITI (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); PUERTO RICO (79%);

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (93%);

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (93%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIAMI (FLA); HAITI; UNITED STATES  HAITI (97%); UNITED STATES
(94%); PUERTO RICO (79%);   FLORIDA, USA (93%);   MIAMI, FL, USA (93%);

SUBJECT: LAW AND LEGISLATION; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; REFUGEES AND
EXPATRIATES; DECISIONS AND VERDICTS  LITIGATION (93%); IMMIGRATION (91%); JUDGES

 (91%); REFUGEES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%);
PAROLE (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS
(79%); IMMIGRANT DETENTION CENTERS (78%); VERDICTS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%);
ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (78%); JAIL SENTENCING (78%); BORDER CONTROL (71%);
SPONSORSHIP (70%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              123 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 18, 1982, Friday, Late City Final Edition

Judge Ends Immigration Rule

BYLINE: UPI

SECTION: Section B; Page 8, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 161 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, June 17


Judge Robert Aguilar of Federal District Court here today rejected immigration
rules barring foreign homosexuals from entering the United States. Judge Aguilar
said the rules violated the constitutional rights of free speech and association
for homosexuals.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service ''has asserted no legitimate
governmental or public interest in its policy of excluding homosexual aliens on
the sole grounds that they are homosexuals,'' the judge said. ''Homosexuals pose
no threat to national security merely because they are homosexuals. Nor do they
pose a threat to the health, safety and welfare of the American public.''

Judge Aguilar ruled in the case of the Lesbian-Gay Freedom Day Committee, which
challenged an Immigration and Naturalization Service policy excluding
homosexuals as ''sexual deviants'' once they were certified to be homosexual.

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%);

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (58%);

COMPANY: IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE  (84%); IMMIGRATION &
NATURALIZATION SERVICE (84%);

ORGANIZATION: IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE  (84%); IMMIGRATION &
NATURALIZATION SERVICE (84%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES  UNITED STATES (95%);   SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (58%);



SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; HOMOSEXUALITY; LAW AND LEGISLATION;
DECISIONS AND VERDICTS; SUITS AND LITIGATION  IMMIGRATION (93%); GAYS & LESBIANS

 (93%); IMMIGRATION LAW (91%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT
(90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); VERDICTS (89%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (89%);
LEGISLATION (88%); NATIONAL SECURITY (68%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              124 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                June 17, 1982, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

BOGUS SOCIAL SECURITY CARDS WERE TOO NEAT, SENATORS TOLD

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 10, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 387 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 16


Federal investigators told a Senate committee today that they had cracked a ring
of swindlers trafficking in fraudulent Social Security cards because the
applications for the documents were too neat to pass for Government work.

Daniel F. Lane and Walter T. Hempel 2d testified before the Senate Permanent
Subcommittee on Investigations, which estimates that false personal
identification cards may be costing the American public $24 billion a year.

Mr. Lane is an investigator with the Department of Health and Human Services and
Mr. Hempel works for the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

They described an illegal operation in Los Angeles that they said was run by
Frank and Maria Richards. They said the couple bilked illegal aliens out of $1.5
million by selling them bogus Social Security cards at $20 apiece and other
fraudulent documents.

The investigators said the couple obtained 10,000 to 40,000 Social Security
cards from the Government with the help of Gwendolyn Gay, a Social Security
Administration employee who has been sentenced to 30 days in jail for her part
in the scheme.

Bypassed Local Offices

Mr. Lane said that each week the Richardses would send coded Social Security
card applications in Government envelopes to a Federal computer center,
bypassing the local Social Security offices. The object was to make it appear
that the applications had been approved by a regional office. When the Richards
received the cards, they sold them to the illegal aliens.

The plan worked for years until the applications began to appear too neat and
raised suspicions, Mr. Lane said. ''Sloppy applications are more acceptable
because they're more like the normal ones,'' he said.

The Richardses are fugitives. In addition to Miss Gay, three other persons
convicted in the scheme were sentenced to prison terms ranging from five months
to two and a half years.

In a related development, Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan of New York, the
ranking Democrat on the Senate's Social Security Subcommittee, said today that
he planned to reintroduce legislation that would require the Social Security
Administration to issue new or replacement Social Secuirty cards on
counterfeit-proof paper.

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%);

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%);

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (56%);

COMPANY: SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION  (56%); SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION
(56%);

ORGANIZATION: SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION  (56%); SOCIAL SECURITY
ADMINISTRATION (56%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES  UNITED STATES (94%);   CALIFORNIA, USA (79%);   LOS
ANGELES, CA, USA (56%);

SUBJECT: FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; SOCIAL SECURITY (US); ILLEGAL ALIENS; IMMIGRATION
AND EMIGRATION  INVESTIGATIONS (90%); IMMIGRATION (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS
(90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); US SOCIAL
SECURITY (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%);
SENTENCING (89%); LEGISLATORS (79%); PRISONS (78%); COUNTERFEITING (78%);
ORGANIZED CRIME (78%); APPROVALS (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); JAIL SENTENCING

 (72%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (71%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              125 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                June 17, 1982, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

A Little Mercy for the Haitians

SECTION: Section A; Page 26, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 462 words


When it comes to the Haitians, the quality of Attorney General Smith's mercy is
strained, but it is mercy nonetheless and much to be welcomed. Almost 2,000 of
them are still detained behind the high wire fences; many have been there for a
year or more. Mr. Smith now would permit those with lawyers and sponsors to get
out, pending hearings on whether they are admissible as refugees. Though
grudging, this new policy may mean the beginning of the end of a sordid little
chapter in American immigration history.

There was logic to Mr. Smith's initial policy of detaining Haitian migrants who
made it to this country and of sending the Coast Guard out on patrol to keep
others from trying. The United States should control its borders. However
pitiful the Haitian boat people may be, why should they be allowed to crowd in
ahead of Salvadoran or Somali refugees?

As a matter of cold fact, the Smith policy has so far succeeded; in recent
months the number of illegal Haitians found entering this country has dropped
sharply.

The price, however, has gone up. As the months have dragged on, the deterrent
value of detention has been vastly offset by a growing, noxious awareness.
People whose only crime was trying to escape Haiti are being treated like
convicts. Their hearings delayed by a legal logjam, they have been subjected to
callous, cruel treatment.  Children have been separated from parents. Numbing
boredom has been followed by dozens of mental breakdowns. It all produced a
stern order from Federal District Judge Robert Carter calling for the release of
53 Haitians held in Brooklyn. A broader Florida case may be decided this week.

Nevertheless, the Administration has not budged, until now. And even now there
is less to the Attorney General's new ''experimental'' policy than meets the
eye. It is four times grudging:

(1) None of the 1,910 Haitians will be released for two or three weeks until
procedures are worked out. (2) Even then, only those with lawyers and sponsors
will be let out; there are not now enough sponsors for all. (3) When releases do
come, they will be temporary; anyone found excludable will be put back in the
camps pending appeal. None of the Brooklyn 53 are to be let out. (4) And
detention won't peter out; according to the letter of the policy, all new
migrants will be held indefinitely.

Still, we would like to think that it is the spirit of the policy, more than its
letter, that conveys the Attorney General's intent. It is not easy for proud,
stubborn officials to relent. Indeed, for a cabinet officer to do so is a mark
of strength. And for the Haitians, that may at last be a beginning.

COUNTRY: HAITI (98%); UNITED STATES (93%);

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%);

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; HAITI  HAITI (98%); UNITED STATES (93%);   NEW YORK,
USA (90%);   NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%);

SUBJECT: REFUGEES AND EXPATRIATES; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; LAW AND
LEGISLATION  JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (91%); IMMIGRATION (90%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL
(90%); REFUGEES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LAWYERS (89%); DELAYS &
POSTPONEMENTS (77%); LEGISLATION (76%); JUDGES (73%); BORDER CONTROL (72%);
TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (71%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (70%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              126 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                June 17, 1982, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

TORONTO MAYOR QUERIED ON ENTRY

BYLINE: By MICHAEL ORESKES

SECTION: Section B; Page 3, Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 481 words


The Mayor of Toronto said yesterday that before being admitted to the United
States last Saturday for a conference on urban affairs in New York City he was
questioned by a United States Immigration officer about what he planned to say
at the conference.

''It was more questioning than I've ever been through,'' said the Mayor, Art
Eggleton, a frequent visitor to the United States, ''and I've never been asked
what I was going to talk about before.''

The questioning took place at a United States Customs and Immigration station at
the Toronto Airport on Saturday afternoon, according to the Mayor. That was at
the same time as the rally that drew more than half a million people to Central
Park to demand an end to the nuclear arms race.

A spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service said that border
guards had been under special orders at the time to question foreign visitors
headed for New York. But she said the questions directed at Mayor Eggleton had
probably been meant as friendly conversation.

Mayor Describes Questioning

Mr. Eggleton said, however, that ''there was no doubt in my mind it was
deliberate questioning.'' He said the immigration officer, whom he could not
name, asked why he was coming to New York.  When he replied that he was going to
a conference of mayors, he said, she then asked, ''Are you making any
presentation?'' When he said yes, he recalled, she then asked, ''What will you
be talking about?'' He said he had replied, ''Toronto,'' and was then admitted.
Toronto was one of nine foreign cities represented at the International Urban
Symposium, sponsored by the Citizens Budget Commission.

Discussed Urban Issues

While most of Mr. Eggleton's comments at the symposium, which concluded
yesterday, dealt with urban issues, he did insert in a speech Tuesday a call for
nuclear disarmament, an issue that has been placed on Toronto's election ballot
in November.

Ira Glasser, executive director of the American Civil Liberties Union, said he
believed the questioning of Mayor Eggleton was unconstitutional.

Janet R. Graham, the immigration spokesman, said she had not been able to locate
the officer who questioned the Mayor. But she suggested that the officer had
probably just been chatting and that the questions had been ''a comment with no
purpose or intent.''

Miss Graham did say that immigration officers had been under special
instructions at the time because of the large numbers of foreigners seeking
admission to the United States to attend the antinuclear rally.

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); CANADA (93%);

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); ONTARIO, CANADA (93%);

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (93%);

COMPANY: US CUSTOMS & BORDER PROTECTION  (57%); US CUSTOMS & BORDER PROTECTION
(57%);

ORGANIZATION: US CUSTOMS & BORDER PROTECTION  (57%); US CUSTOMS & BORDER
PROTECTION (57%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; TORONTO (ONTARIO)  UNITED STATES (99%); CANADA
(93%);   NEW YORK, USA (95%); ONTARIO, CANADA (93%);   NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%);
TORONTO, ON, CANADA (93%);

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; MAYORS  IMMIGRATION (93%); IMMIGRATION LAW
(90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); MAYORS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT
(78%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (76%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (75%); ARMS CONTROL &
DISARMAMENT (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); BORDER CONTROL (70%); ARMS RACE (68%);
MILITARY WEAPONS (54%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: photo of Art Eggleton

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              127 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                June 17, 1982, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

COURT'S RULING ON ILLEGAL ALIENS: A DOUBTFUL PRECEDENT;
News Analysis

BYLINE: By LINDA GREENHOUSE, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section B; Page 18, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1061 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 16


In ruling Tuesday that the Constitution entitles illegal alien children to a
free public education, the Supreme Court inevitably invited further tests of
aliens' rights to other government services.

Illegal aliens are now ineligible for most of the basic Federal benefit programs
and their state counterparts, including Medicare, Medicaid, food stamps, Aid to
Families with Dependent Children, Supplemental Security Income and unemployment
compensation. They are excluded from some Federal higher education programs and
from some state colleges.

The Court's declaration that the constitutional guarantee of equal protection of
the laws ''extends to anyone, citizen or stranger,'' regardless of immigration
status, at least suggested that these inequalities are about to be swept away by
the Justices' newly expansive reading of the 14th Amendment.

But, given the framework on which Associate Justice William J.  Brennan Jr.
constructed his 5-to-4 majority opinion, any conclusion that such a result is
imminent is premature. Both Justice Brennan's opinion and the concurring
opinions of two other Justices emphasized the ''unique'' importance of basic
education, both to individuals and to society as a whole, as well as the
particular unfairness of making children bear the burden of their parents'
illegal status.

Medicare Ruling Seems Safe

The opinions contained no hint that the Court was prepared to reevaluate a
unanimous 1976 ruling that held Congress had the right to make citizenship or
permanent residency a requirement for Medicare eligibility.

The language of that decision, Mathews v. Diaz, without doubt still commands a
majority of the Court. ''Neither the overnight visitor,'' the Court said then,
''the unfriendly agent of a hostile foreign power, the resident diplomat, nor
the illegal entrant, can advance even a colorable constitutional claim to a
share in the bounty that a conscientious sovereign makes available to its own
citizens and some of its guests.''

The case before the Court on Tuesday concerned a Texas law that allowed local
school districts to close their doors to illegal aliens. The case thus raised
the specter of innocent children condemned by a punitive and wealthy state to a
life of illiteracy and may have been, quite simply, the most sympathetic case
that advocates for undocumented aliens will ever be able to bring before the
Court. And still the vote was only 5 to 4.

Three aspects of the Texas case were crucial to the Court's decision that the
state's law was unconstitutional, and all three are unlikely to be factors in
future legal challenges on behalf of illegal aliens.

Limits on the States

First, the Texas law represented an effort by a state to enforce its view of
national immigration policy. The Court has long regarded immigration policy as
an area for Federal, not state, action and, as the Mathews v. Diaz decision
indicated, is likely to be much more deferential if an exclusion of illegal
aliens was dictated by Congress rather than by a state legislature.

In fact, in finding the Texas law illegitimate as a way of enforcing immigration
policy, Justice Brennan considered it significant that Congress had never
indicated any desire to deprive illegal alien children of an education. But when
Congress has expressed a policy choice, Justice Brennan indicated, the Court
might well give the states more latitude in taking their own steps to carry out
that policy.

''In other contexts,'' he said, ''undocumented status, coupled with some
articulable Federal policy, might enhance state authority with respect to the
treatment of undocumented aliens.''

In addition, the Texas law concerned education, which the majority treated as a
very special governmental responsibility. Education, Justice Brennan said, is
not ''merely some governmental 'benefit' indistinguishable from other forms of
social welfare legislation.'' The public school, he said, quoting a 1979 opinion
by Associate Justice Lewis F. Powell, is ''the primary vehicle for transmitting
the values on which our society rests,'' and the lack of basic education is both
an ''enduring disability'' to an individual and a deficit to society as a whole.


Brown Decision Recalled

Justice Brennan also reached back to Brown v. Board of Education, the basic
school desegrgation case, for a paragraph on the importance of education. For
the Court, public education has a resonance that is nearly spiritual and that is
shared by few other activities of government. Those few almost surely do not
include cash transfer programs, such as welfare and unemployment compensation,

Finally, the law concerned children, ''innocent children'' in Justice Brennan's
words, who, Justice Powell said, ''should not be left on the streets
uneducated.''

Adult illegal aliens, the majority seemed to say, have created their own
problems and have no particular claim to rescue by the courts. Justice Brennan
said that ''persuasive arguments support the view that a state may withhold its
beneficence from those whose very presence within the United States is the
product of their own unlawful conduct.''

But the Texas law ''directing the onus of a parent's misconduct against his
children does not comport with fundamental conceptions of justice,'' Justice
Brennan said.

It was a point the majority found persuasive, and that might provide the most
fertile ground for future lawsuits on behalf of illegal aliens. Children are
directly affected by, for example, the family's lack of access to medical care.
The case of prenatal care is particularly interesting because the unborn child
whose wellbeing is at stake is automatically an American citizen at birth.

The Mexican-American Legal Defense and Educational Fund, which brought the Texas
case, is now litigating a broad health care case on behalf of illegal aliens in
California, arguing that the state has a duty under the state and Federal
constitutions to provide medical care to all indigent residents.

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%);

STATE: TEXAS, USA (93%);

COMPANY: MEDICARE (84%); MEDICAID (58%);

ORGANIZATION: MEDICARE (84%); MEDICAID (58%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES  UNITED STATES (94%);   TEXAS, USA (93%);

SUBJECT: DECISIONS AND VERDICTS; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; CHILDREN AND YOUTH;
IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; ILLEGAL ALIENS  ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (93%); MEDICARE
(90%); IMMIGRATION (90%); EQUAL PROTECTION (90%); LITIGATION (90%); SETTLEMENTS
& DECISIONS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); DECISIONS
& RULINGS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); PUBLIC
SCHOOLS (89%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); IMMIGRATION LAW
(89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT
(78%); VERDICTS (78%); FAMILY (78%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (77%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS
(73%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (72%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (71%); MEDICAID
(58%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Analysis

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              128 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               June 16, 1982, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

TEXAS GOVERNOR SAYS COMPLIANCE WITH COURT RULING IS NO PROBLEM

BYLINE: By WAYNE KING, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section D; Page 22, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 859 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON, June 15


Gov. William Clements said today that Texas could easily provide court-mandated
education of illegal aliens in its public schools, but he predicted that doing
so would make illegal immigration more attractive, particularly from Mexico.

The Governor offered no opinion on whether the Supreme Court ruling that had the
effect of mandating free public education for illegal aliens would be
interpreted to include social programs, such as welfare.

Lawyers for the National Center for Immigration Rights in Los Angeles who
prepared the legal arguments in the case differed somewhat in their assessment
of the ruling's probable effect, but they suggested it would be minimal.

Raymond Bynum, the Texas Commissioner of Education, echoed the Governor's belief
that the fiscal impact on Texas schools would be minimal, but he said he feared
that an existing shortage of bilingual teachers would worsen.

Houston Charged Fees

Texas has, in fact, been providing free public education to illegal alien
children since July 1980, when a Federal District Court first struck down as
unconstitutional a 1975 state law that empowered local school districts to bar
aliens from public schools or to charge them tuition.

Before the ruling, the Dallas Independent School System refused to admit illegal
aliens, and the Houston system charged tuition of $162 a month.

''For two years we've been educating them, and the immediate impact is
minimal,'' Mr. Bynum said. ''But if the question becomes will this bring more
workers and families into this couuntry, it is a ruling that has broader
implications for food stamps, unemployment compensation and so forth.''

''We've got the money, we can appropriate the money,'' he said, ''The problem is
we don't have enough bilingual teachers now and we're not getting any assistance
whatsoever.''

Both Mr. Bynum, interviewed by telephone in Austin, and the Governor, who spoke
at a news conference here, suggested that the Federal Government should bear
some or all of the burden of educating illegal aliens because immigration laws
have not been effective in stemming the tide of aliens entering this country
illegally.

''The Federal Government is requiring it, but on the other hand the Federal
Government is not enforcing the immigration laws,'' Mr.  Bynum said. Governor
Clements said he would continue to press for Federal assistance to educate
illegal aliens, but he said that was not the primary issue.

''I don't think there is any question at all,'' he said, ''that once again we
have created a situation here that makes illegal immigration, primarily from
Mexico, attractive.''

The Governor said that figures compiled by the Texas Education Association
showed 12,000 children who are illegal aliens attended Texas public schools in
the 1980-81 school year and 18,000 in the year just ended.

'It Is an Attraction'

''I think you will see this increase because it is an attraction,'' he said,
''but I would also call it a periphery issue to the entire subject of illegal
immigration and undocumented workers from Mexico.''

The Governor conceded that the state had anticipated ''many, many more'' illegal
aliens to flood into Texas schools after the Federal court decision two years
ago; he and others had predicted up to 100,000 such children would enroll. But
the Governor went on to say he thought the problem ''has been vastly overblown
in the press and various forms of the media.''

He continued: ''I'm sure we'll handle it in Texas in good form.'' Commissioner
Bynum put the number of illegal aliens in public schools at the end of the year
at ''between 20,000 and 30,000'' and said it would cost the state $100 million
to educate them. He added that even the higher figure would amount to only about
1 percent of the more than 2 million students in the total school population.

'Would Have Grown Anyway'

He said he expected some increase in the number of illegal aliens as a result of
the ruling, but added, ''I think it would have grown anyway.''

One imponderable is the number of illegal aliens who do not attend school
because their parents fear their illegal status will be discovered and they will
be deported. Some of these children still attend church-supported and other
private schools set up after the passage of the 1975 law.

Two of the lawyers for the National Center for Immigrants Rights in Los Angeles
who helped to prepare plaintiff briefs in the Supreme Court case differed
somewhat on the probable effect of the court's decision on other areas of public
policy.

One of them, Carlos Holguin, observed that the court did not rule that states
could not deny certain rights or privileges to illegal aliens but instead had
said that the State of Texas had shown no valid fiscal or other reason for
denying such rights.

''The state,'' he said, ''really failed to prove that that kind of
discrimination was justified for fiscal reasons.''

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%);

STATE: TEXAS, USA (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%);

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (93%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); DALLAS, TX, USA (79%);

COMPANY: SUPREME COURT (US)

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; TEXAS  UNITED STATES (96%);   TEXAS, USA (96%);
CALIFORNIA, USA (79%);   HOUSTON, TX, USA (93%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); DALLAS,
TX, USA (79%);

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS
ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (93%); IMMIGRATION (92%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (91%); GOVERNORS
(90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); LAW COURTS &
TRIBUNALS (90%); TUITION FEES (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); EDUCATION
SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%);
IMMIGRATION LAW (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); BILINGUAL
EDUCATION (89%); CHILDREN (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS
(78%); MULTILINGUALISM (78%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); FAMILY
(76%); LAWYERS (75%); APPROPRIATIONS (72%); FOOD STAMPS (71%); LABOR SHORTAGES
(68%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (64%); PRESS CONFERENCES (62%);

PERSON: WILLIAM PERRY CLEMENTS JR  (92%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: photo of William Clements

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              129 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                June 15, 1982, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

U.S. ANNOUNCES NEW POLICY FOR PAROLE OF SOME HAITIANS

BYLINE: By GREGORY JAYNES, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 24, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1013 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, June 14


The Justice Department announced today that it was issuing guidelines for the
release of some Haitians from Federal detention facilities. The Haitians would
be paroled to sponsors while they awaited hearings on whether they would be
deported.

Many of the nearly 2,000 Haitians have been detained as long as a year under a
Reagan Administration policy designed to discourage illegal immigration.

The latest action, essentially a return to the policy of a year ago, was
announced this afternoon in Federal District Court here, where a ruling on a
lawsuit that seeks to free the Haitians is expected any day. Attorneys for the
plaintiffs and other advocates for Haitians in Miami said the timing of the
announcement indicated that the Government expected to lose the case and had
changed its policy to save face.

The new guidelines, set forth in a memorandum from Attorney General William
French Smith to the Immigration and Naturalization Service Commissioner, Alan
Nelson, allow parole for Haitians who are represented by individual counsel,
have a ''responsible sponsor'' and can offer ''acceptable assurances'' that they
will appear for court hearings.

Forms of Acceptable Assurance

Acceptable assurance, said Robert Bombaugh, a Justice Department trial lawyer,
could be a pledge from relatives or others of longstanding residence in the
community, or could be in the form of ''reasonable bonds.''

The condition of ''reasonable bonds'' raised immediate concern among those
attempting to aid the Haitians. ''It sounds fairly good in theory and easily
manipulated in practice,'' said Ira Kurzban, one of the principal lawyers in the
lawsuit, which was filed in behalf of the Haitians in detention as a class.
''For example,'' he said, ''say they ask $2,000 bond. No one gets out.''

The Rev. Gerard Jean-Juste, executive director of the Haitian Refugee Center
Inc. in Miami, said that if ''it is implemented properly, it is a fair
proposal,'' adding: ''The only thing I'm concerned about is the bonding. If they
ask $500 to $2,000, we're back to Square One again.''

Mr. Bombaugh said that he could not ''get into details'' and that a meeting with
immigration officials had been set for Thursday to ''discuss details of the
implementation.''

He said the move ''does not in any way resolve the issues currently before this
court.'' Judge Eugene Spellman, who is hearing the case, agreed, saying he would
make his decision in the lawsuit before the end of this week. The judge and Mr.
Bombaugh agreed to meet June 23 with the Dade County Bar Association and
voluntary sponsoring groups to work out the procedures for those eligible for
release.

600 Held at Miami Center

About 600 Haitians are being held at the Krome Avenue Detention Facility, a
former missile base 25 miles west of Miami. There are 650 at the Fort Allen
Detention Facility in Puerto Rico, and the rest of the 2,000 are being held at
Federal correction facilities in Kentucky, New York, Texas and West Virginia.
Civil libertarians contend they are political refugees and ought to be released.

The lawsuit seeks to prove that the Government's detention of Haitians is
discriminatory because aliens of other nationalities are routinely released. The
Government contends that the Haitians are treated ''specially,'' though not
discriminatorily, in part because, while they are seeking political asylum, the
Government's position is that they have come here for economic reasons.

Other aliens without proper documents are routinely expelled, Government
witnesses said, while the Haitians have prolonged their incarceration with
petitions for political asylum and class-action lawsuits. The detention policy,
according to testimony, was adopted last summer as a deterrent to further
illegal immigration. It was also put into effect after it was discovered that
more than 20,000 Haitians who were paroled in the custody of sponsors over the
last decade, pending exclusionary hearings on their cases, never appeared for
the hearings.

About 800 of the Haitians are represented by lawyers and apparently would be the
first to be considered for parole. But an agreement between the Government and
the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico stipulates that Haitians cannot be released
there. Judge Spellman asked Mr.  Bombaugh about that today, but he could not say
what would be done with those now held on the island.

'Abuse' of Parole Asserted

Until last summer, the immigration service, after a cursory medical examination,
routinely paroled Haitians who arrived in the United States illegally. Mr.
Bombaugh said that the policy was ''abused'' and that it ''caused more, not
less, illegal immigration.''

The new, much stricter parole policy will be ''monitored closely,'' Mr. Bombaugh
said. The numbers of Haitians who do not show up for hearings will be ''kept
track of,'' he said, adding that if it is found that the paroles are
''encouraging more illegal immigration,'' the program will be rescinded.

Asked in Washington whether the timing of the announcement was connected to the
lawsuit in Miami, Associate Attorney General Rudolph W. Giuliani, one of the
witnesses in the two-month trial, said it was ''not in any way an attempt to
influence'' the judge's decision.

Commissioner Nelson said in an interview, ''We are not in any way backing off or
waivering from the detention policy.'' Mr. Kurzban speculated that the Reagan
Administration had ''gotten a lot of political heat,'' and ''felt they were
going to lose the case.'' He said, ''This was a way of softening the blow and
making it look like they were doing it on their own.''

There was no word of reaction by those being held at the Krome Facility, which
has barred all visitors except for immediate relatives because of ''rising
tension.''

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%);

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (94%);

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (94%);

COMPANY: SQUARE ONE (52%);   US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE  (94%); US DEPARTMENT OF
JUSTICE (94%);

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE  (94%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (94%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;FLORIDA; UNITED STATES  UNITED STATES (94%);   FLORIDA, USA (94%);
   MIAMI, FL, USA (94%);

SUBJECT: REFUGEES AND EXPATRIATES; DECISIONS AND VERDICTS; IMMIGRATION AND
EMIGRATION  JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (93%); IMMIGRATION (91%); LAWYERS (90%); PAROLE
(90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); DEPORTATION (90%); IMMIGRANT
DETENTION CENTERS (89%); IMMIGRATION LAW (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%);
REFUGEES (89%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT (78%); VERDICTS (77%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS
(67%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (60%);

PERSON: WILLIAM FRENCH SMITH  (56%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: photo of Haitians at Miami detention center

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              130 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 14, 1982, Monday, Late City Final Edition

AROUND THE NATION;
U.S. Will Not Prosecute Reporter in Aliens Case

BYLINE: UPI

SECTION: Section A; Page 16, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 86 words

DATELINE: SAN ANTONIO, June 13


A newspaper reporter who posed as an illegal alien and was arrested will not be
prosecuted for transporting real illegal aliens in Texas, a Federal official
said Friday.

David Almaraz, assistant United States Attorney in Laredo, Tex., said he had
dropped the felony smuggling charges against Danny Garcia, a reporter for The
San Antonio Light.

Mr. Garcia, 27 years old, had told the Immigration and Naturalization Service of
his plans to pose as an alien.

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%);

STATE: TEXAS, USA (94%);

CITY: SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (94%); LAREDO, TX, USA (71%);

COMPANY: IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE  (57%); IMMIGRATION &
NATURALIZATION SERVICE (57%);

ORGANIZATION: IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE  (57%); IMMIGRATION &
NATURALIZATION SERVICE (57%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; TEXAS  UNITED STATES (94%);   TEXAS, USA (94%);
SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (94%); LAREDO, TX, USA (71%);

SUBJECT: ILLEGAL ALIENS; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA;
SMUGGLING  ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (93%); IMMIGRATION (90%); ARRESTS (90%); JUSTICE
DEPARTMENTS (90%); SMUGGLING (90%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (88%); US FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT (87%); FELONIES (85%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              131 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 13, 1982, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

U.S. Seeks to Deport an Alien Accused of Nazi Unit Service

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 8, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 215 words

DATELINE: CHICAGO, June 12


The Justice Department has filed a request for deportation of a man who is
accused of concealing his service in a German SS unit in Nazi concentration
camps in World War II.

The request, filed in United States Immigration Court on Tuesday, accused Hans
Lipschis of concealing service in an SS Death's Head unit in the
Auschwitz-Birkenau concentration camp in Poland between 1941 and 1945.

Mr. Lipschis was ordered to appear in court on July 13 to show why he should not
be deported.  The six-count civil complaint contends that Mr. Lipschis, a native
of Lithuania, left his homeland for Germany in 1941 and enlisted as a private in
the Waffen SS, the combat arm of the elite German corps.  He was later assigned
to a Death's Head battalion at Auschwitz, the complaint says.

Mr. Lipschis, also known as Antanas Lipsys, is a permanent resident alien,
according to Allan A. Ryan, director of the Justice Department's Office of
Special Investigations. Mr. Lipschis is accused of concealing his SS service
when he was granted permanent resident status, Mr. Ryan said.

Mr. Lipschis, who lives on the city's Southwest Side, refused to talk to a
reporter who went to his house.

COUNTRY: GERMANY (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); POLAND (92%); LITHUANIA (76%);
CENTRAL EUROPE (73%);

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (51%);

COMPANY: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE  (94%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (94%);

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE  (94%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (94%);

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); POLAND (92%); LITHUANIA (76%);
CENTRAL EUROPE (73%);   CHICAGO, IL, USA (51%);

SUBJECT: DEPORTATION; NAZI ERA  DEPORTATION (94%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (92%);
WORLD WAR II (91%); HOLOCAUST (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); IMMIGRATION (78%);
IMMIGRATION LAW (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              132 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 13, 1982, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

Aliens Found Challenging U.S.

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 16, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 257 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 12


Immigration in the next few years will pose a challenge to American society
similar to that when Europeans flocked here at the turn of the century,
according to a private study.

The report by the Population Reference Bureau, a nonprofit research
organization, projects net annual migration into the United States at 795,000 to
970,000 people in this decade.

About half those immigrants will enter the country illegally, according to the
study, which says they will be coming primarily from Latin America.

''Immigration at these levels promises a change in the makeup of U.S. society
that presents Americans with a challenge similar to that of the large numbers of
European immigrants who entered at the beginning of the 20th century,'' wrote
Leon Bouvier, a bureau demographer.

In the report, ''U.S. Population: Where We Are; Where We're Going,'' the
bureau's panel of experts also predicted that fertility would remain low, with
annual births peaking at about four million and then beginning to decline; the
proportion of the population moving each year, currently 20 percent, would
moderate, and the movement of the population to the South and West would
continue but not accelerate.

''The urge to migrate remains high in the Latin American and Caribbean countries
where most illegals originate,'' Mr. Bouvier reported. ''The young adult
population is growing rapidly and unemployment has not been reduced.''

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (94%); LATIN AMERICA (90%); CARIBBEAN
ISLANDS (78%);

COMPANY: POPULATION REFERENCE BUREAU  (84%); POPULATION REFERENCE BUREAU (84%);

ORGANIZATION: POPULATION REFERENCE BUREAU  (84%); POPULATION REFERENCE BUREAU
(84%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES  UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (94%); LATIN AMERICA
(90%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (78%);

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; ILLEGAL ALIENS  IMMIGRATION (95%); ILLEGAL
IMMIGRANTS (79%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (77%); POPULATION SIZE (76%);
NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (72%); POPULATION GROWTH (72%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              133 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 13, 1982, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

SECTION: Section 11; New Jersey; Page 28, Column 3; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 146 words


The problems of the United States are tremendous.  We deal poorly with violence
and crime, shortages of housing and energy, illegal immigration and the demands
of special groups whose wishes are often an outrage to society: Guns, tobacco,
gambling, drugs, chemicals and a plethora of various religious moral positions.
Grace Dermody speaks for such a group, promoting and encouraging childbirth for
women who are ill-equipped for maternity: potential child abusers reacting to
the intense pressures of single parenthood, women who will live on Aid to
Dependent Children payments until the child reaches legal age, with the rate
increasing for each child they spawn and carry to term.

No responsibility for the human this cause has promoted into life is taken after
birth. The problem is left to government, which prefers not to see it.
RUTH SMITH DELORENZO, Basking Ridge

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%);

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES  UNITED STATES (93%);   NEW JERSEY, USA (92%);

SUBJECT: SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ABORTION; MEDICINE AND HEALTH  VIOLENT
CRIME (90%); WOMEN (88%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (87%); IMMIGRATION (72%);
ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (72%); CHILD ABUSE (69%); TRENDS (67%); RELIGION (55%);
SINGLE PARENTS (53%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: letter

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              134 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 11, 1982, Friday, Late City Final Edition

Alien Ideas Need No Quarantine

SECTION: Section A; Page 30, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 383 words


What has the United States to fear from 315 foreign disarmament demonstrators,
mostly from Japan, who want to attend the United Nations disarmament conference?

The world's greatest democracy, home of the U.N. and host to Saturday's rally in
Central Park, has denied visas to a handful of foreigners who want to
participate. The reason: they are excludable under the McCarran-Walter
Immigration Act of 1952. According to official explanations, this is no band of
hard-core spies. The 315 merely have some connection with the Communist Party of
Japan, or a Japanese disarmament group, or the World Peace Council - all
described by the Administration as ''Soviet fronts.''

Foreigners have no absolute right to enter this or any other country. That the
Government has the sweeping power to deny these visas was underscored in
yesterday's Federal court decision refusing to overturn the action. But having
power and using it are not the same; in this case, the Administration's barring
the border sends the wrong signal. It suggests a fear of outside ideas and
hostility to people who say they come in search of peace.

Americans are not as hostile or fearful as that signal suggests.  And the
Supreme Court has recognized that their right to receive ideas may be
compromised by the exclusion of foreigners who hold unorthodox ones. Such
exclusion is itself the truly un-American activity.

The McCarran-Walter Act that authorizes it was enacted at a time of paranoia
over Communism. It tried to quarantine Americans against alien ideology. But
even that oppressive law allows exceptions. For 30 years, thousands of waivers
have been granted. Even this time the Administration granted 42 waivers, but
only to persons with official invitations to the U.N. function. Its argument
that each of the 315 rejected applicants must show special merit to deserve
entry is even more offensive than the sway of a hysterical old statute.

America sends the world a proud message about freedom of speech and association.
And it need not apologize for its position on arms negotiations. Yet Government
officials behave as if they are ashamed of both. They should be ashamed only of
themselves.

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (94%);

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%);

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (UN)  UNITED NATIONS  (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%);

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN)  UNITED NATIONS  (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%);

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (94%);   NEW YORK, USA (92%);

SUBJECT: ATOMIC WEAPONS; ARMS CONTROL AND LIMITATION AND DISARMAMENT; UNITED
STATE INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CONVENTIONS AND CONFERENCES  DISARMAMENT (91%);
UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (90%); EDITORIALS &
OPINIONS (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%);
IMMIGRATION (78%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (78%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (77%); IMMIGRATION
LAW (76%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (73%); SUPREME COURTS (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (70%);

 LITIGATION (69%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (69%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (69%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: Editorial

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              135 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                June 10, 1982, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

THE CITY;
Cocaine Seized On Cargo Ship

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

SECTION: Section B; Page 2, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 106 words


Fourteen pounds of cocaine with a street value of $4.5 million have been seized
from a Colombian cargo ship tied up in Brooklyn, the Customs Service said
yesterday.

A Customs Service spokesman, Michael Kaufman, said the cocaine was found in the
engine room of the Ciudad de Pasto during a routine search Tuesday afternoon by
customs agents and investigators from the Federal Drug Enforcement
Administration.

No arrests were made in connection with the cocaine seizure, he said, adding
that three stowaways who were discovered on the ship were turned over to
immigration authorities.

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); COLOMBIA (93%);

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%);

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%);

COMPANY: US DRUG ENFORCEMENT ADMINISTRATION  (57%); US DRUG ENFORCEMENT
ADMINISTRATION (57%);

ORGANIZATION: US DRUG ENFORCEMENT ADMINISTRATION  (57%); US DRUG ENFORCEMENT
ADMINISTRATION (57%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY  UNITED STATES (93%); COLOMBIA (93%);   NEW YORK, USA

 (93%);   NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%);

SUBJECT: DRUG ADDICTION AND ABUSE; SHIPS AND SHIPPING  COCAINE (93%); EXCISE &
CUSTOMS (93%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES &
TREASURIES (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); NARCOTICS ENFORCEMENT
(88%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (88%); IMMIGRATION (85%); INVESTIGATIONS (83%); LAW
ENFORCEMENT (83%); ARRESTS (52%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              136 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 8, 1982, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

ABOVE ALL ELSE, HE IS 'THE PRESIDENT'S LAWYER'

BYLINE: By JO THOMAS, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 24, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1486 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 2


On the fifth floor at the Justice Department, beyond the street noise that
testifies to Government as a growth industry, the sounds in the Attorney
General's office are muted, the walls paneled, the lamp cloisonne, the tennis
trophy small. On the back of the tiger, as some have described this place, there
is a calm not found in schools or prisons or refugee camps, although this office
profoundly affects them all.

William French Smith, the gray-haired Attorney General dressed impeccably in
gray, twirled a paper clip as he spoke of confronting some of the most emotional
issues of the day: racial discrimination, crime, immigration. He seemed mostly
interested in results.  Controversy he has left to others, including his
longtime friend, client and current boss, Ronald Reagan.

When he can, that is. Two small items in a personal portfolio worth $2 million
to $3.5 million recently turned the spotlight on him: a $50,000 corporate
severance payment and $117,600 in potential tax deductions on oil drilling
deals. His spokesman, Thomas P. DeCair, called the most recent spate of columns,
articles and editorials on the matter ''a distraction.''

The Attorney General returned the severance payment and sharply limited his
possible deductions ''to terminate'' the furor, he said, ''just to terminate
it,'' but a preliminary inquiry by the Federal Bureau of Investigation was
already under way to determine whether a special prosecutor should investigate
the payment. Normally, the Attorney General would oversee this inquiry; in this
case the Solicitor General will act in his stead.

'One of Those Things'

''Of all the things which I would have thought would have caused a problem,
these two things would not have been it,'' said Mr. Smith.  ''Matter of fact, I
never really even paid much attention to either one of them. In both cases, in
effect, I relied on people whose judgment you respect. Sometimes those things
turn out differently from the way you expect. It's just one of those things.''

In some ways, the controversy over Mr. Smith's finances mirrors that felt at the
White House over two matters in which the White House relied on Mr. Smith. One
was the decision last fall to fight the House-passed version of the Voting
Rights Act, which would have enabled minority groups to bring suit by showing
discriminatory results without having to prove a discriminatory intent. The
other was the decision in January to reverse an Internal Revenue Service policy
and grant tax-exempt status to Bob Jones University and other racially
discriminatory private schools.

Just as Mr. Smith did not see his finances as an ethical issue, he did not see
either voting rights or the tax-exemption policy as racial issues.

''On the Voting Rights Act,'' he said, ''we had one principal concern, and it
should have been everybody's principal concern, namely, that the House bill
could well produce proportional representation and, in the process, take the
decision-making concerning local government structure out of the hands of the
constituency and put it into the hands of the courts. Most people seemed to be
oblivious to the significance of the change.''

'A Good Principle'

On the question of tax exemptions, said Edward C. Schmults, the Deputy Attorney
General: ''There was a good principle there, but it got blown away. The
principle was not race, but whether Congress should decide or leave it to the
bureaucrats to make the decisions.''

''We didn't anticipate the outcry,'' he conceded. Then, referring to James A.
Baker 3d, the Presidential chief of staff, he added: ''It would have been
better, as Baker says, if the legislation to cure this had been ready at the
same time. I still think the legal analysis is correct, but I'm not sure it
makes any difference. The civil rights issue overshadowed it, and Bob Jones was
a lightning rod that made it difficult to explain other changes.''

Those changes, Mr. Smith said, have come in ''areas where we think the remedies
tried for many years in the past just have not worked.  The most obvious
examples, of course, are busing and the use of quotas. I think some of the to-do
that followed those changes tended to obscure what we are doing overall in the
civil rights area.''

''We've had more criminal civil rights cases brought during this Administration
than during any prior Administration,'' Mr. Smith said. ''The President himself
has always advocated the importance of civil rights and protecting civil rights.
There has not been any incompatibility there.''

The Justice Department's record shows 240 civil rights cases under way, a
quarter of them initiated under the Reagan Administration, and 1,500 other
accusations of civil rights violations under investigation, virtually all of
them started under Mr. Smith.  Prosecutions for racial violence, police
brutality and involuntary servitude are higher than for any single year of other
Administrations.

Two Opinions on Busing

Last month Mr. Smith told Representative Peter W. Rodino, the New Jersey
Democrat who is chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, that the anti-busing
bill sponsored by Senator J. Bennett Johnston, Democrat of Louisiana, and
Senator Jesse Helms, Republican of North Carolina, was constitutional in that it
restricted only the lower Federal courts. On the same day, concerning a bill to
withdraw Federal court jurisdiction over school prayer issues, he said that
Congress could not make restrictions that would intrude on the core functions of
the Supreme Court.

Both opinions were released on the day the President, who has been under
pressure from conservatives to act on items on their agenda, endorsed a
Constitutional amendment to permit prayer in schools.

''I think as a result of the Watergate experience,'' Mr. Smith said, ''the idea
became current that somehow the Department of Justice should be independent of
the Administration. I don't think that is so. There are some areas it should be
independent with the decisions it makes. At the same time, it is part of the
Administration to carry out the Administration's policy, and that is what we
have done.''

Carrying out the Administration's policy has not always been easy.  For example,
aides to Mr. Smith say he could have won a ''pyrotechnics prize'' for memos
protesting budget cutbacks in his department, but that he tried to make sure the
memos did not become public and eventually fell in line, saying he would do more
with less.

Mr. Smith has been lobbying hard, often at breakfast in the luxurious conference
room near his office, for passage of the major immigration reform sponsored by
Senator Alan K. Simpson, Republican of Wyoming, and Representative Romano L.
Mazzoli, Democrat of Kentucky, while at the same time he is locking up Haitian
refugees for months in camps in Florida and Puerto Rico and keeping in prison
Cuban refugees whom he can't send back to Cuba but who he thinks might do great
harm on the street.

Relationship With Reagan

The Attorney General's confidence in the face of controversy, according to those
who know him, is probably the result of his relationship with President Reagan
which, as far as Mr. Smith is concerned, ''has never really changed.''

''He's a remarkable man from that standpoint,'' the Attorney General said of the
President. ''He hasn't changed. He's the same person that he was when I first
knew him. And he is, despite the fact now that he has perhaps the most important
job in the world.''

''I'm the President's lawyer,'' he went on. ''I'm not the President's lawyer in
the sense I used to be, not his personal lawyer any more. But one of the
functions of the Attorney General is to advise the President and other members
of the Cabinet on legal matters. We're in a position here, just by the nature of
our job, where we have to say 'no' to a lot of people. I suppose in one sense,
you could say we're sort of a business that sooner or later we're going to make
everybody mad at least once.''

''Even among the Administration, there are those who think that all the laws
they didn't like were repealed on Election Day and don't understand what to us
is pretty elemental, namely, that our function is to enforce the law as it is,
whether we like it or not. And those who don't like it, of course, have to
change the law. We never can and never would not enforce the law to meet some
philosophical or political position or need.''

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%);

COMPANY: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE  (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (84%);
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION  (54%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (54%);

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE  (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (84%);
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION  (54%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (54%);

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%);

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION  JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (95%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL
(91%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); CIVIL RIGHTS (89%); DISCRIMINATION (89%); RACIAL
DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (89%); RACE & RACISM (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%);

 INVESTIGATIONS (88%); SEVERANCE PAY (88%); TAX LAW (87%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (87%);

 LAWYERS (78%); TAX AUTHORITIES (78%); ETHICS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS &
INSTITUTIONS (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (74%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (72%);
IMMIGRATION (71%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (71%); REFUGEES (71%); SUITS & CLAIMS (70%);
ELECTION LAW (64%); REFUGEE & RELIEF CAMPS (56%);

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (56%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: photo of William French Smith

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              137 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 6, 1982, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

Around the World;
Costa Rica to Tighten Immigration Policy

BYLINE: UPI

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 5, Column 5; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 129 words

DATELINE: SAN JOSE, Costa Rica, June 5


Warning that Costa Rica had entered ''the eye of the storm of Central America,''
Costa Rica's Vice President has announced that his Government will seek to
tighten its immigration policy to preserve national security.

Vice President Armando Arauz Aguilar announced that the next Government council
session would consider a proposal to enforce strict immigration laws to preserve
national security.

''Costa Rica has stopped being a country that is small, peaceful and isolated
from events of the zone,'' he said Friday. Mr. Arauz Aguilar said new
immigration laws would strictly control foreigners entering Costa Rica ''because
the country needs peace and quiet to remake itself.''

COUNTRY: COSTA RICA (99%); CENTRAL AMERICA (90%);

CITY: SAN JOSE, COSTA RICA (88%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;COSTA RICA  COSTA RICA (99%); CENTRAL AMERICA (90%);   SAN JOSE,
COSTA RICA (88%);

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION  IMMIGRATION (92%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%);
IMMIGRATION LAW (90%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              138 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 4, 1982, Friday, Late City Final Edition

REPRISE ON McCARRAN ACT;
News Analysis

BYLINE: By DAVID MARGOLICK

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1264 words


Thirty years ago, in the middle of the McCarthy era, Senator Pat McCarran told
the United States Senate of the urgent need for drastic changes in America's
immigration policies.

''Our present laws are shot through with weaknesses and loopholes,'' he
declared. ''Criminals, Communists and subversives are even now gaining admission
into this country like water through a sieve.''

While the Nevada Democrat's apocalyptic language may sound a bit dated, the
McCarran-Walter Immigration and Nationality Act of 1952 is not. The measure,
which lumped Communists and anarchists with prostitutes, polygamists, paupers,
stowaways and lepers and other categories of aliens previously barred from
entering the United States, remains the law of the land, always within reach of
American Governments seeking to exclude ''undesirables.''

In the past few days, the State Department has invoked the McCarran Act once
more - this time to exclude nearly 500 people, including more than 350 Japanese,
from attending activities in connection with a United Nations session on nuclear
disarmament.

The Power of Congress

The move prompted protests from civil libertarians, who went to Federal Court in
Manhattan yesterday to challenge the visa denials and to face the formidable
obstacles encountered in every previous attack on the McCarran Act. It has long
been axiomatic that aliens have no right to enter the United States, but are,
instead, admitted purely by discretion of Congress. Though often challenged,
that power is one to which the courts have universally deferred.

At the same time, according to civil libertarians like Thomas Emerson of the
Yale University Law School, the Government's application of the McCarran Act in
so unusual and seemingly indiscriminate a fashion highlights the First Amendment
implications of the McCarran Act - and could, as a result, make even the
strictest strict constructionist blanch.

Even were the New York Civil Liberties Union to prevail, however, or the
Attorney General to waive the denials, the victories could prove illusory should
they come after the disarmament conference has ended. It is that potential
situation, critics contend, that gives the McCarran Act powers even more
sweeping than its vague language already allows.

Purpose of First Curbs

When the United States first imposed immigration curbs in 1875, they were
designed to preserve the original racial and ethnic composition of the country
rather than to protect its body politic.

With World War II and the coming of the cold war, however, those seeking to curb
immigration became more concerned with ideological than with ethnic purity.

Their efforts culminated with the McCarran Act, which provides that any alien
who belongs to Communist or anarchist organizations, as well as nonmembers who
propagate their ideas or who are suspected by consular officials or the Attorney
General of seeking to ''engage in activities prejudicial to the public
interest,'' are automatically barred from receiving visas unless the denial is
waived by the Attorney General.

The language of the McCarran Act is broad enough to encompass individuals of
varying political persuasions and was employed last December to bar the militant
Northern Irish Protestant leader, the Rev. Ian Paisley. But both in its language
and its application, the law has been much harder on the political left than on
the right.

Many Intellectuals Banned

Numerous leftist artists and intellectuals - including the authors Gabriel
Garcia Marquez and Regis Debray -have been kept from visiting the United States
over the years. In 1975 an Italian Communist foreign affairs specialist was
denied entry to attend a conference - shortly after the leader of Italy's
neo-Fascist party had been readily admitted.

With the 1977 enactment of the so-called McGovern Amendment, which gives
additional rights of access to members of ''proscribed organizations'' such as
Communist parties throughout the world, the McCarran Act lost some of its steam.
But that amendment, designed to bring the United States into compliance with the
freedom-to-travel provisions of the Helsinki Accords, does not apply to many
individuals barred from the country under the McCarran Act.

It would not, for instance, have been available to Dr. Ernest E.  Mandel, a
Belgian journalist and Marxist theoretician - but not a Communist - who in 1969
sought unsuccessfully to obtain a six-day non-immigrant visa to attend a
conference at Stanford University.

Nearly three years after the conference was held - and after Dr.  Mandel gave
his speech to it by telephone - the United States Supreme Court ruled that the
bar did not violate the rights of American scholars.

Supreme Court's Ruling

Dr. Mandel's failure to observe strict limitations placed upon him during
previous visits to the United States constituted a ''facially legitimate and
bona fide reason'' for the Government's decision to keep him out of the country,
Justice Harry A. Blackmun wrote for the majority.

While acknowledging that the right of free speech under the First Amendment
includes the right ''to receive information and ideas,'' Justice Blackmun wrote
that the courts would allow the Attorney General to make immigration decisions
without interference.

He suggested, however, that where the Government can offer no justification at
all for excluding undesirable aliens, the courts could be moved to modify their
customary laissez-faire position on the subject.

The exclusion of the disarmament advocates who, unlike Dr. Mandel, had not
disobeyed orders previously placed on them, presents that very situation, the
New York Civil Liberties Union asserts.

Other Charges Against U.S.

The Government, aside from violating the spirit of the United Nations Charter
and of agreements it undertook when the United Nations was placed in New York -
as well as of spirit of the Helsinki Accords - is accused by the civil liberties
union of violating the minimal procedural protections contained in the McCarran
Act. While Dr. Mandel readily admitted his link to Marxism, the group asserts,
the Government has completely failed to show that any or all of the barred
Japanese actually belong to an organization advocating world Communism - a
showing required to override the First Amendment rights of Americans seeking to
meet with them.

The Government's case, the civil liberties group declares, is based on
assertions that ''most'' of the barred Japanese belong to an organization with
''indirect'' ties to an ''alleged'' Communist organization ''supposedly'' linked
to Communism.

''This guilt by association goes far beyond anything which the McCarran Act
contemplates,'' the union charges.  To some, including Ernest Mandel himself,
political and social maturation seems a better bet than litigation for altering
the McCarran Act or removing it from the books altogether.

''In the 19th century the British ruling class, which was sure of itself,
permitted Karl Marx to live as an exile in England for almost 40 years,'' wrote
Dr. Mandel. By banning him, he said, the American Government demonstrated a
''lack of confidence in the capacity of its supporters to combat Marxism on
battleground of ideas.''

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%);

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%);

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%);

COMPANY: YALE UNIVERSITY PRESS (54%);   UNITED NATIONS  (55%); UNITED NATIONS
(55%);

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS  (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES  UNITED STATES (96%);   NEW YORK, USA (79%);   NEW
YORK, NY, USA (79%);

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION; DISCRIMINATION
IMMIGRATION (92%); IMMIGRATION LAW (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); PUBLIC
POLICY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LAWYERS (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%);

 ATTORNEYS GENERAL (87%); COLD WAR (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW
(77%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (77%); CITIZENSHIP LAW (77%); WAGE & HOUR LAWS (77%);
ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (77%); LAW SCHOOLS (74%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES
(73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); POLYGAMY (72%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS
(72%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (72%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (71%);
NUCLEAR WEAPONS (69%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (68%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS

 (66%); ETHNICITY (64%); WORLD WAR II (60%); PROSTITUTION (55%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: analysis

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              139 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 4, 1982, Friday, Late City Final Edition

50 IN PEACE GROUP TO GET VISAS FOR SESSION AT U.N.

BYLINE: By PETER KIHSS

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 705 words


Fifty members of the World Peace Council who were denied visas to attend United
Nations disarmament sessions starting here Monday have now been approved for
restricted entry, the Immigration and Naturalization Service said yesterday.

The State Department said Wednesday that the council was ''an organization with
strong affiliations'' to the Soviet Communist Party. It did so in reporting the
denial of visas to 348 Japanese as members of a group close to the council.

The department acted under the Immigration and Nationality Act of 1952, but said
later that it was recommending Justice Department waivers to admit most of the
Japanese.

Duke Austin, an immigration spokesman in Washington, said the Peace Council
members were separate from 376 cases being reviewed individually. The council
members were approved, he said, because they had been officially invited by the
United Nations.'' But he said they would be restricted to being within 25 miles
of Columbus Circle.

Leader Was Barred

While Mr. Austin could not immediately name the 50, Michael Myerson, executive
director of the U.S. Peace Council, said the world council's president, Romesh
Chandra of India, had been originally barred along with four other members of
the council's secretariat and more than 20 others.

The others, he said, included Gen. Francisco da Costa Gomes, former President of
Portugal, and James A. Lamond, a member of the British Parliament, both vice
presidents of the peace group, and retired General Nino Pasti, of Italy, a
former deputy commander of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization in Italy.

Alan Romberg, a State Department spokesman, said the department had asked for a
waiver for General Pasti, excluded initially because he was elected to the
Italian Parliament on a Communist slate. He said there was no record in
Washington of applications by General Gomes or Mr. Lamond.

In a Federal District Court hearing in Manhattan yesterday, Thomas Belote,
special assistant United States Attorney, said a visa had been authorized
Tuesday for a representative of the South-West Africa People's Organization.

Mr. Myerson said this was Theo Ben Gouriab, the organization's permanent
representative to the United Nations for nine years.

Canadian Stopped at Border

Yesterday morning, Kay MacPherson, past president of the Voice of Women in
Canada, who is scheduled to speak at a June 12 disarmament rally, was barred
from entering by car at Champlain, N.Y. In Ottawa, she said she had been coming
to a meeting of the Women's International League for Peace and Freedom, which
started at Barnard College yesterday.

Mr. Austin said her name was on a list of persons subject to exclusion because
of affiliation with certain organizations. Miss MacPherson said Canada's
Ministry of External Affairs was looking into her exclusion.

In Federal Court, Judge Pierre Leval ordered the United States Attorney's office
to provide information at 3 P.M. today in response to a suit by the American and
New York Civil Liberties Unions seeking immediate entry documents for foreign
visitors to the United Nations sessions.

The suit claimed First Amendment constitutional rights for Americans to exchange
ideas with United Nations visitors. It also cited a 1947 agreement between the
United Nations and the United States, in which the United States pledged to
refrain from impeding transit for accredited representatives of accredited
nongovernmental organizations.

Steven R. Shapiro, counsel for the New York Civil Liberties Union, told the
judge: ''What may be the legitimate concern of government in certain instances
is not at issue here because this is a United Nations-sponsored activity.''

For the Government, Mr. Belote said ''every officially invited delegate has been
permitted to come,'' but as to others ''it is the sovereign power of the United
States to determine who may enter.'' Judge Leval noted that any plaintiff claim
could be lost by the rapid ''ticking of the clock.''

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (94%); ITALY (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%);
PORTUGAL (79%);

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%);

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%);

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (UN)  UNITED NATIONS  (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); NORTH
ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION  (54%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (54%);

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN)  UNITED NATIONS  (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%);
NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION  (54%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION
(54%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES  UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (94%); ITALY (90%);
UNITED KINGDOM (79%); PORTUGAL (79%);   NEW YORK, USA (79%);   NEW YORK, NY, USA

 (79%);

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; UNITED STATE INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS;
ATOMIC WEAPONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND
MILITARY FORCES  IMMIGRATION (93%); DISARMAMENT (91%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (91%);
MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS &
FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); APPROVALS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); ARMS
CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%);
JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (89%); INTERNATIONAL
RELATIONS (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); FOREIGN
POLICY (77%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); CITIZENSHIP LAW (72%);
POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); BRITISH PARLIAMENT (65%); JUDGES (63%);

PERSON: PIERRE N LEVAL  (50%); PIERRE N LEVAL (50%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              140 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                June 2, 1982, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

HAITIANS SINGLED OUT FOR HARSH TREATMENT

SECTION: Section A; Page 26, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 358 words


To the Editor:

In a recent letter (May 21), Alan C. Nelson, Commissioner of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, defended the Government's policy of detaining more than
2,000 Haitians in substandard facilities for nearly a year. That defense
deserves a response.

First, the Commissioner alleged that under Federal law the Immigration Service
is required to detain persons seeking admission to the country while their
applications are considered.

This interpretation of the law is an entirely novel one which has never been
adopted by any previous administration. To the contrary, the law has
consistently been read to require detention in only the most serious cases.

As the Supreme Court stated in 1958, only six years after the present
immigration act went into effect: ''Physical detention of aliens is now the
exception, not the rule ... Certainly this policy reflects the humane qualities
of an enlightened civilization.'' The inhumanity involved in jailing the
Haitians cannot, therefore, be blamed on the law.

Second, Commissioner Nelson insisted that the Government ''applies (its)
detention policy evenhandedly to aliens of nationalities who are similarly
situated.'' This is simply not true. According to figures supplied by the
Government in a Federal court challenge to its Haitian program, less than 1
percent of persons coming to New York seeking political asylum in 1981 from
anywhere other than Haiti were kept in jail. By contrast, the only Haitians
released were a few pregnant women.

This can hardly be described as ''evenhanded'' treatment. Indeed, after
reviewing the evidence, Judge Robert L. Carter concluded that the Government's
actions ''were motivated by a desire to discriminate against Haitians.''

At a time when this country's future immigration policies are being considered
in Congress, the public debate is hardly advanced by misrepresenting the
relevant facts.
STEVEN R. SHAPIRO, New York, May 21, 1982

The writer, staff counsel of the New York Civil Liberties Union, is involved in
litigation in the U.S.  Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit challenging the
detention of the Haitians.

COUNTRY: HAITI (96%); UNITED STATES (92%);

COMPANY: ROBERT L SIGMON (54%);   IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE  (91%);
IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE (91%);

ORGANIZATION: IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE  (91%); IMMIGRATION &
NATURALIZATION SERVICE (91%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;HAITI; UNITED STATES  HAITI (96%); UNITED STATES (92%);

SUBJECT: REFUGEES AND EXPATRIATES; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION  IMMIGRATION
(93%); PUBLIC POLICY (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%);
LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); IMMIGRANT DETENTION CENTERS (78%); POLITICAL ASYLUM
(78%); EVIDENCE (77%); JAIL SENTENCING (74%); SUPREME COURTS (74%); LAW COURTS &
TRIBUNALS (74%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%);
REFUGEES (73%); DISCRIMINATION (71%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (70%); APPEALS
COURTS (69%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (50%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              141 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 May 30, 1982, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

CAN THE NUMBERS OF ILLEGAL ALIENS BE CONTROLLED HUMANELY?

SECTION: Section 4; Page 12, Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1969 words


The Senate Judiciary Committee, by a vote of 16 to 1, last week approved a bill
that would overhaul the nation's immigration laws.  The sponsor of the bill,
Senator Alan K. Simpson, Republican of Wyoming, and Antonia Hernandez, director
of the Washington office of the Mexican American Legal Defense and Educational
Fund, disagree on many of the underlying issues. In separate interviews, they
discussed their concerns with Robert Pear, a reporter in the Washington bureau
of The New York Times. At the outset, each was asked whether the nation had lost
control of its borders and whether there should be more enforcement of the
immigration laws.

SENATOR SIMPSON: There is a huge flow of undocumented aliens that must be
addressed. We will be best about our duties when we legalize that flow instead
of seeing it remain illegal, and we think that that's very possible with
employer sanctions, an identifier system, an expanded H-2 (temporary worker)
program for agricultural and other areas. The true test in the legislation will
be the gut-wrenching decision whether the United States has really become so
dependent upon the undocumented worker that it cannot get off that particular
opiate, or whether we really do want immigration reform and control of the
borders.

Question. There have been so many immigration reforms proposed in the last five
years. Why do you think yours is better?

Answer. I would like to think it's because we took the hot stuff and put it
right up front and began in our early discussions to deal with the issue of a
cap on legal immigration, a staunching of the flow of illegal immigration. We
wanted a reform which would not have the characteristics of all our past
reforms, which have been racist.  By putting everything on the table early, we
had an interesting response and didn't allow it to slip into the evil, vile,
hidden kind of stuff that accompanies any significant reforms.

Q. Did you have any reservations about proposing a scheme that would require
United States citizens to validate their identity when they apply for a job?

A. Yes, when I first heard that proposed, I rejected it. In fact, much of the
original package just gave me the creeps. Then I said: This is impossible; I
don't see how we can reject everything and get reform. Maybe I'd better start
listening. So I started to listen and I started to research and read, and I
became convinced that you have to have employer sanctions or penalties against
those who knowingly hire (illegal aliens), and you have to have a universal
employment authorization verification. I had a good deal of trepidation, but I
said, what are we trying to do? Are we trying to slip over into 1984 and
Orwellian theories? Are we trying to intrude upon the private lives and civil
liberties of the American people? I would visit with people from the A.C.L.U.
and civil libertarians, and I would say, O.K., if you don't like that, what's
the alternative? Please give me an alternative, but no fair quoting from the
Statue of Liberty. I don't want anybody in the argument to do that.

Q. What are the prospects for this legislation?

A. I think there is a good deal of support for it. I have advised the majority
leader that we will have something to be processed. He knows it is a priority
item.

Q. Is it correct to say that your bill would, for the first time, put immediate
relatives of immigrants under the numerical ceiling for immigration?

A. In setting the 425,000 cap, we are staying with existing levels. We are not
cutting away or going up. We do still cherish and embrace the historical
traditions of immediate family, and they will still come in. The people of the
country are not aware that there has never been any limit on immediate family.
It doesn't matter how many would come. They are not totaled against the quotas,
the country allocations. What we are saying is: Continue to come in, even if it
goes over the quota. But then if it does, then the next year you have a rolling
reassessment of that country's quota. Yes, we do in essence place a cap on
immediate family and family reunification.  But it is not evidenced because it
can go into the second year of the allocation, and there are only one or two or
three countries that are heavily affected there.

Q. Why do you put immediate relatives under the ceiling?

A. That figure has gone up about 7 percent a year. That figure 10 years ago was
70,000, and now it is 155,000. Those are unlimited - no numerical limit on
those. If we are going to have that type of exponential growth, we ought to be
paying attention to it in what is called the Immigration Reform and Control Act
of 1982.

When we finish the legalization process, those people will be entitled to have
their families come here. That's why we must be assured that we watch for that
tremendous increase. Once you have legalization, plus five years, plus 3 to 6
million people who all would then have the right to make application for their
relatives under the preference system, that's a lot of numbers.

Q. Critics say that your bill would require employers to help enforce the
immigration laws. What's the point of that?

A. The idea of employer sanctions draws a quick response: that it's terrible to
make the employers of America the policemen of the world. But that is not what
this legislation does. If people will take the time to read the bill - it's 78
pages and it's all in English - I think they will be attracted to what we really
are trying to do with employer sanctions.

What is expected of the employers is one thing, one tiny small thing: that when
they are hiring people, they just check off on the same form, wherever they are
asking for the Social Security numbers or whatever they do ordinarily, just say,
I asked this person for his identifier or his work authorization, and check the
box. And you do that under penalty of perjury.

We knew that if we ever put a tremendous burden on the employer, we would never
get to first base. That's why the legislation does not put a tremendous burden
on the employer.

MISS HERNANDEZ: We believe that there should be more enforcement, more control
of the borders, but there has to be a humane immigration policy. We agree that
the Immigration and Nationality Act should be updated, that it is archaic. Our
concern is that these people are coming through and are being exploited, and
furthermore that their presence here makes the lives of Hispanics much more
difficult.

Question. What is your reaction to the recent roundup of more than 5,000 illegal
aliens by the Immigration and Naturalization Service?

Answer. It was a public charade that will not in any way affect the overall
economic problems of this country. Any day they want, they can pick up that many
undocumented persons without making a big public fanfare.

Q. How does that relate to what would happen if Congress enacted the proposal
sponsored by Senator Simpson and Representative Romano Mazzoli of Kentucky?

A. The employer sanctions, combined with a multiple identification system, would
create the same type of environment. We had reports from Los Angeles that the
immigration officers would go into companies, surround the premises, look at the
employees, divide them into Latin-looking and Anglo employees, and they wouldn't
harass the Anglo employees. They would put all the Latin employees in one
corner. Then they would interrogate each and every one of them to see whether
they were United States citizens or legal resident aliens.  The added problem is
that a lot of United States citizens who were Hispanic Americans didn't have
documentation with them. They were taken to the central station until they could
prove (their status).  Why should anyone of any heritage in America have to
undergo that humiliation, that harassment or that inconvenience?

Q. Is there any way to aggressively enforce the immigration laws without having
harassment that discriminates against Hispanic Americans?

A. I don't think so. Basically, the problem of harassment, of intimidation is
placed on you because of who you are, your ethnicity, your nationality. I.N.S.
people will tell you that they can smell or determine who is an undocumented
alien and who is not, but that's a bunch of baloney. There's no way they can
tell. People will say, that's why you should have a counterfeit-proof
identification card.  Well, that is unrealistic too. Any I.D. card is going to
be based on the same documents that are so easily counterfeited. You can buy a
birth certificate, you can buy a Social Security card.

Let me give you a very personal example. My father is a United States citizen,
and he looks as Mexican as anyone I've ever seen. He had one of the old cards
that I.N.S. used to issue with his picture, saying that he is a United States
citizen. He carries it with him.  That was never good enough when they used to
raid his company. So now he's thinking of getting an American passport to see if
that will do, since a passport is much more difficult to get.

Q. Where was he born?

A. In Texas.

Q. Would the Simpson-Mazzoli bill halt the flow of undocumented workers from
Mexico?

A. No. It fails to consider the strong economic and social factors, such as
higher wages and family reunification, which bring immigrants to this country.
People don't understand the economic interdependence and interrelationship
between the two countries. I am not saying that we have to have an open border.

Q. Would the Simpson-Mazzoli proposal lead to better enforcement?

A. They don't even enforce the laws they have now. There's nothing in the
proposal that would lead us to believe they are going to enforce it. What's
going to happen is that we are going to have another law on the books that is
not enforced systematically, that will be enforced arbitrarily, in a
discriminatory manner.

The Office of Management and Budget came up with statistics saying that a
picture I.D. would cost close to $2 billion. Without a picture, it would cost $1
billion. They should put one-quarter of the $1 billion into better management of
I.N.S., better border enforcement and try this for a couple of years and see
what happens.

Q. What about penalizing employers?

A. Employer sanctions would inevitably result in discrimination against
Hispanics and other minority citizens and legal residents.  Employers intent on
excluding minorities could conceal their discriminatory practices under the
pretext of compliance with the law. On the other hand, well-meaning employers
might avoid hiring minorities or 'foreign-looking' applicants for fear of being
subjected to employer sanctions.

Q. Have the professionalism and training of I.N.S. agents gotten any better?

A. In all my experiences with the immigration service, and they have been many,
by and large I.N.S. officers have been courteous, respectful and understanding.
We in our family have never had the questioning and the suspicion at the border,
but that to us is part of being Hispanic. It's sort of assumed. At the border we
have had very good relationships. My parents fear, they distrust, but they also,
in all fairness, have had few unpleasant experiences at the border.

You can't put all the fault on I.N.S. officers. They are overworked,
understaffed, given an impossible task, told to enforce the law, but not to
enforce the law.

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%);

COMPANY: MEXICAN AMERICAN LEGAL DEFENSE & EDUCATIONAL FUND (58%);

ORGANIZATION: MEXICAN AMERICAN LEGAL DEFENSE & EDUCATIONAL FUND (58%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES  UNITED STATES (96%);

SUBJECT: LAW AND LEGISLATION; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; ILLEGAL ALIENS
IMMIGRATION LAW (94%); LEGISLATION (93%); IMMIGRATION (92%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS
(92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%);
APPROVALS (90%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (78%); FOREIGN LABOR (78%);
BORDER CONTROL (77%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); HISPANIC
AMERICANS (73%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (68%);

PERSON: ALAN K SIMPSON  (92%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: photos of Alan K. Simpson, Antonia Hernandez photo of
immigration officials capturing illegal aliens

TYPE: question

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              142 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                May 29, 1982, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

OVERHAUL OF IMMIGRATION LAW GAINS IN SENATE

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1; Page 7, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 588 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 28


The Senate Judiciary Committee has approved a bill to overhaul the nation's
immigration law in a major step toward resolving a long-term dispute.

Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, was the lone dissenter
Thursday as the panel voted, 16 to 1, to send the proposal to the Senate.

Just minutes before the final vote, Mr. Kennedy won a concession that would
greatly increase the number of illegal aliens now in the country who would be
eligible for legal status.

The Republican-controlled committee, by an 8-to-7 vote, approved Mr. Kennedy's
proposal to give temporary legal status to illegal aliens who could prove they
had been here since Jan. 1.

Another version had set the date at Jan. 1, 1980, the same as in a similar
immigration bill pending before the House Judiciary Committee.

The difference of two years could mean legal status for five million illegal
immigrants, or 500,000 more aliens than would otherwise be eligible, according
to Reagan Administration and committee figures. It is estimated that there are
six million illegal aliens in the United States.

Temporary legal status would be the first step for an illegal alien to gain
citizenship. However, some illegal aliens say they are fearful of stepping
forward and acknowledging their illegal status.

Administration officials said that if Congress agreed on the 1982 date,
President Reagan would probably accept it. The Administration had recommended
Jan. 1, 1981, as the cut-off date.

The bill also proposed permanent legal residence for any immigrant here before
Jan. 1, 1978.

Penalties Against Employers

The measure would also impose the first civil and criminal penalties against
employers who knowingly hired immigrants who lacked legal status.

Mr. Kennedy objected to that provision. He said he was worried that employers,
out of fear of being fined and sentenced to jail, would automatically reject job
applications from people of Hispanic descent.

Mr. Kennedy had unsuccessfully proposed that such sanctions against employers be
automatically canceled after two years unless the President could certify that
they were not being used to discriminate against members of minority groups.

In recent years attempts to change the immigration law have stalled in Congress
as proposals got caught between opposition from many sides. Hispanic groups,
among others, favored eased restrictions on immigrants, while opponents pushed
for stricter measures to guard the nation's borders.

The committee vote on Thursday suggested that Congress might be ready after
years of stalemate to overhaul the immigration laws.  Bipartisan praise was
showered on Senator Alan K. Simpson, Republican of Wyoming, the sponsor of the
measure, for working out a painstaking compromise. The House version, which is
close to the Simpson bill but not exactly the same, is sponsored by
Representative Romano L. Mazzoli, Democrat of Kentucky.

Both measures contain the proposed sanctions against employers. An employer
would be required to check a job applicant's eligibility by asking him to show
either a birth certificate or passport and a Social Security card or driver's
license.

The legislation envisions that after three years the Government would develop a
means of checking legal status, through an identification card or through a
computerized data bank.

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES  UNITED STATES (94%);

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; ILLEGAL ALIENS  IMMIGRATION (93%); ILLEGAL
IMMIGRANTS (93%); IMMIGRATION LAW (93%); LEGISLATION (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES
(90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); APPROVALS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US
PRESIDENTS (87%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (78%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS
(73%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (69%); FINES & PENALTIES (69%); SENTENCING (64%); JAIL
SENTENCING (63%); CRIMINAL FINES (63%); CITIZENSHIP (54%);

PERSON: TED KENNEDY (94%); RONALD REAGAN (54%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              143 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                May 26, 1982, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

PITFALLS IN LEGISLATION TO MODERNIZE AMERICAN IMMIGRATION LAW

SECTION: Section A; Page 30, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 629 words


To the Editor:

Under active consideration in Congress is the Simpson-Mazzoli bill, which is a
modified version of the immigration proposals of the Administration. While in
some respects our immigration laws doubtless are antiquated, we believe many of
the proposed changes are unsound and undesirable.

A major aspect of this legislation is the theme that if employers are required,
under threat of sanctions, to become government enforcement agents, the problem
of undocumented aliens will somehow vanish. While we have reservations regarding
the wisdom and effectiveness of this device, we recognize that it has been
thoroughly debated for over 10 years.

Unfortunately many provisions in the bill have not had the benefit of extended
discussion or consideration, including the following:

* In an apparent reaction to unfavorable court decisions, the Administration has
proposed, and the Simpson-Mazzoli bill adopts, limitations on the judicial
review of immigration decisions.

Sound executive and legislative policy, in our view, should welcome the role of
the courts in correcting errors and assuring evenhanded justice, and we deplore
the effort to restrict their traditional role.

* The bill would authorize a single immigrant inspector to reject summarily any
person seeking to enter the United States if he concludes that the applicant
does not have the required documents or that his claimed right of entry (or
citizenship) is unfounded.

This arbitrary power could be exercised without any hearing or representation by
counsel, and without opportunity for administrative or judicial review. The
legislation would thereby abandon, without any sound justification, a right to a
fair hearing before an immigration officer, recognized by our immigration laws
since 1903.

* The bill would impose arbitrary, and in our view unjustified, restrictions to
preclude foreign students from seeking residence in the United States unless
they return to their home countries for two years after they complete their
studies.

A two-year foreign residence requirement is now applied to exchange visitors
whose projects are government-sponsored and -financed, but we can perceive no
reasonable basis for such a requirement in the case of a bona fide foreign
student who pays his own way and eventually qualifies for residence benefits,
e.g., by marriage to an American citizen.

* The bill would deny the privilege of adjustment to permanent residence status
for aliens in the United who have violated their temporary status.

A similar effort to curtail such benefits by overly stringent requirements
proved unsound and was abandoned in 1958. This change will merely require an
alien already eligible for a visa to make a meaningless trip to another country
to obtain the visa, and will unnecessarily overburden U.S. counsuls. Various
factors, including administrative delays, may contribute to an alien's failure
to maintain status. We believe the discretionary features of the present statute
afford ample opportunity to deal with visa abusers.

* The bill would curtail the principle of family unity, now a major aspect of
our law, by removing from the preference categories the adult, unmarried
children of lawful residents and the brothers and sisters of American citizens,
thus virtually denying such aliens the opportunity of joining their relatives in
the United States.

These provisions of the Simpson-Mazzoli bill are significant changes of course
in American immigration policy. We believe they should not be adopted.  CHARLES
GORDON SAM BERNSEN MAURICE A. ROBERTS Washington, May 17, 1982 Messrs. Gordon
and Bernsen are former general counsel to the Immigration and Naturalization
Service; Mr. Roberts is former chairman of the Board of Immigration Appeals.

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES  UNITED STATES (95%);

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION  IMMIGRATION (93%);
IMMIGRATION LAW (91%); JUDICIAL REVIEW (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%);
LEGISLATION (90%); FOREIGN STUDENTS (86%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); EMBARGOES &
SANCTIONS (76%); LITIGATION (74%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (74%); LAW COURTS &
TRIBUNALS (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (74%); ILLEGAL
IMMIGRANTS (73%); ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE (70%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (63%);



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              144 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                May 26, 1982, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

BIRTH RATE HIGHEST FOR LATINS IN U.S.

BYLINE: UPI

SECTION: Section C; Page 4, Column 3; Living Desk

LENGTH: 465 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 25


Hispanic people, the nation's fastestgrowing minority, have a birth rate 75
percent higher than the rest of the population, and Hispanic mothers are younger
and less educated, according to a Government report made public this week.

The report, by the National Center for Health Statistics, lends credence to
census experts who predict that at current rates of birth and immigration people
of Hispanic origin will outnumber American blacks before the end of the century.

The report, ''Births of Hispanic Parentage, 1979,'' by Stephanie Ventura,
includes information from 19 states, with 60 percent of the Hispanic population.

Births to Hispanic mothers accounted for 196,000 of the 1.6 million reported
births in the 19 states. The 1979 Hispanic birth rate was 25.5 births per 1,000
population, nearly 75 percent higher than that of non-Hispanic women, which was
14.7, the report said. The fertility rate was 100.5 births per 1,000 women of
child-bearing ages, 59 percent above the rate for non-Hispanic women, which was
63.2, the report added.

Hispanic peoples tend to have larger families, with more than 8 percent of
babies born to Hispanic mothers being the fifth or later child, compared with
3.5 percent of white and 7.4 percent of black babies, the report said.

''Hispanic mothers tend to be somewhat younger than white non-Hispanic mothers
but considerably older than black non-Hispanic mothers,'' it said. Nineteen
percent of Hispanic mothers were under 20 years of age, compared with 15 percent
of non-Hispanic mothers - 12.1 percent for whites and 27.5 percent for black
non-Hispanics.

''The relatively large proportion of births to teen-agers among Hispanic mothers
is a factor accounting for the lower levels of educational achievement observed
for Hispanic women,'' the report said. In 1979, 47.3 percent of Hispanic mothers
had finished 12 years of school, compared with 82.1 percent of whites and 62
percent of blacks. The median educational level was 11.7 years, compared with
12.7 for whites and 12.3 for blacks.

Hispanic mothers are less likely to see a doctor in their first months of
pregnancy, the report said. About 60 percent did in 1979, as against 81.2
percent of white non-Hispanic mothers but about the same as black mothers.

The 19 states were Arizona, Arkansas, California, Colorado, Florida, Hawaii,
Illinois, Indiana, Kansas, Maine, Mississippi, Nebraska, Nevada, New Jersey, New
York, North Dakota, Ohio, Utah and Wyoming. Texas, New Mexico and Georgia will
be added to the 1980 report, bringing the total Hispanic population covered to
more than 85 percent.

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%);

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%);
ARKANSAS, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); WYOMING, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%);
CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA
(79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%);

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%);   NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA
(79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); WYOMING, USA
(79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); HAWAII,
USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%);

SUBJECT: SPANISH-SPEAKING GROUPS (US); POPULATION; BIRTHS  BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES
(92%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (90%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); INFANTS &
TODDLERS (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); PARENTS (89%); CHILDREN (89%);
FERTILITY RATES (78%); HEALTH STATISTICS AGENCIES (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS
(78%); ADOLESCENTS (78%); FAMILY (77%); STATISTICS (73%); FERTILITY &
INFERTILITY (73%); IMMIGRATION (56%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              145 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                May 22, 1982, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

THE CITY;
Forger of Papers For Aliens Is Jailed

BYLINE: By United Press International

SECTION: Section 2; Page 31, Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 137 words


A 25-year-old Brooklyn College student was sentenced to six months in jail and
fined $5,000 yesterday for providing forged documents to illegal aliens seeking
to remain in the United States.

In sentencing the defendant, Jose Del Castillo of Manhattan, Judge Charles L.
Brieant Jr. of Federal District Court in Manhattan said he was concerned that
''in times of high unemployment'' the Government was ''unable to or unwilling to
enforce the immigration laws.''

A probation report on the defendant said he had ''provided forged documents for
approximately 300 people, charging $300 to $500 per package.'' The allegation
was disputed by Mr. Del Castillo, a native of the Dominican Republic, who has
been in the United States for 12 years and is a permanent resident.

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%);

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%);

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%);

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%);   NEW YORK, USA
(96%);   NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%);

SUBJECT: COUNTERFEITING; ILLEGAL ALIENS; SENTENCES (CRIMINAL)  LITIGATION (95%);

 SENTENCING (93%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (92%); JAIL SENTENCING (92%); CRIMINAL
FINES (91%); COUNTERFEITING (91%); FINES & PENALTIES (90%); SETTLEMENTS &
DECISIONS (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); PROBATION (88%); IMMIGRATION LAW
(88%); IMMIGRATION (72%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              146 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 May 21, 1982, Friday, Late City Final Edition

A MANDATE ON ALIENS THAT IMMIGRATION AUTHORITIES MUST OBEY

SECTION: Section A; Page 30, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 563 words


To the Editor:

Your April 19 editorial ''Release the Haitians'' created a misleading impression
of this Administration's efforts to control illegal immigration, and
particularly of its determination that the statutory mandate to detain
excludable aliens must be obeyed.  In June 1981, President Reagan announced a
comprehensive immigration reform package. This package includes a legalization
proposal for large numbers of illegal aliens now in the U.S., and we estimate
that 35,000 Haitians who are here illegally will be eligible to eventually
become citizens.

Concurrent with the legalization proposal, however, new enforcement measures
were proposed or instituted to control significant increases in illegal
immigration and to prevent the legalization program from encouraging new illegal
arrivals. They included sanctions against employers of illegal aliens, increased
enforcement resources, strengthening of laws against alien smuggling, detention
of excludable undocumented aliens as required by law and the interdiction of
illegal arrivals by sea.

Illegal arrivals from Haiti in South Florida is one problem any such
comprehensive package had to address. Such arrivals had steadily increased
through 1980, when more than 15,000 entered. The Administration's efforts,
however, have resulted in a dramatic decrease in that number - 4,500 fewer
Haitians the first quarter of this year than in the first quarter of 1981.

The law mandates, with specified exceptions, that excludable illegal entrants be
detained while their right to enter is determined under the law, rather than
being paroled into the community. The Immigration and Naturalization Service
applies the detention policy evenhandedly to aliens of nationalities who are
similarly situated.

The detainees are not prisoners with indefinite sentences. All are free to
return to their countries of origin at any time.  Unfortunately for those who
have chosen to remain at Krome, lengthy legal maneuvers on their behalf have
delayed the hearings. However, Federal Judge Spellman has now allowed individual
exclusion/asylum hearings to begin. Pro bono attorneys, solicited by the
Attorney General and Judge Spellman to represent the detainees are now beginning
such hearings before immigration judges.

Your characterization of the Krome facility's operation is inaccurate. Liberal
visiting hours are in effect, with an average of 150 members of the press,
family and friends visiting the detainees each Saturday and Sunday. Three
balanced meals, medical and dental services and various classroom and sports
activities are provided.

This is hardly a ''harsh environment.'' In addition, no children are detained at
I.N.S. facilities; unaccompanied minors are placed with voluntary agencies or
relatives. If children are accompanied by parents, the entire family is paroled.

No one can be unmoved by the plight of the Haitians in continued detention. We
are not insensitive but believe that the detention policy should be judged on
law and facts, not speculation.

Detention is required by law, and also serves the welfare of those Haitians and
millions of others waiting in their own country for legal entry. Expedited
hearings - in conjunction with reform of the current outmoded processes - are
the answer.
ALAN C. NELSON, Commissioner, Immigration and Naturalization Service,
Washington, May 5, 1982

COUNTRY: HAITI (96%); UNITED STATES (93%);

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%);

COMPANY: IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE  (54%); IMMIGRATION &
NATURALIZATION SERVICE (54%);

ORGANIZATION: IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE  (54%); IMMIGRATION &
NATURALIZATION SERVICE (54%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; HAITI  HAITI (96%); UNITED STATES (93%);   FLORIDA,
USA (79%);

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; ILLEGAL ALIENS  ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (95%);
IMMIGRATION (92%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PAROLE
(89%); CHILDREN (84%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LAWYERS (77%); ALIEN
SMUGGLING (77%); SMUGGLING (77%); POLITICAL ASYLUM (72%); US PRESIDENTS (72%);
JUDGES (69%); PRO BONO LAW (68%); DENTISTRY (64%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (62%);
EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); CITIZENSHIP (57%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (50%);

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (58%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              147 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                May 19, 1982, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

U.S. JUDGE IS ASKED TO UPHOLD HAITIANS' DETENTION

BYLINE: By GREGORY JAYNES, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 20, Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 706 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, May 18


The Justice Department ended its defense of United States immigration policy in
court here today by imploring the presiding Federal district judge to help the
Reagan Administration regain control of the nation's borders.

In the case of Haitians, about 2,200 of whom have been held in Federal detention
facilities for the better part of a year, Judge Eugene Spellman was told that,
by upholding the detention policy, ''You'll be accused of being a racist. You'll
be accused of being a supporter of black concentration camps. There is no way
around it.''

The trial attorney, Robert Bombaugh of the Justice Department, made the remarks
in his arguments at the end of hearings on a civil suit that seeks to free the
Haitians. Attorneys for the Haitians finished their summations last Friday.
Judge Spellman has said he hopes to have a decision in the case in about two
weeks.

''I can remember coming home with an unannounced friend for dinner,'' Mr.
Bombaugh told the court, ''and my mother, being generous, saying, 'There's
always room for one more.' I do not think she would have said that if I had
brought home the whole football team. There are limits.''

A 'Different' Policy

Attorneys for the Haitians have argued, in the main, that the Government's
policy of detaining all Haitians lacking immigration papers is discriminatory,
and that the Haitians are legitimate political refugees who should be paroled.

The Government has said the policy for Haitians is ''different but favorable''
and not at all discriminatory. Government witnesses have testified that the
regime of Haiti's President, Jean Claude Duvalier, is ''authoritarian'' and that
there are ''reasons for concern for those who actively oppose the regime'' but
that a broad policy of political asylum for all Haitians is not necessary.

Throughout the hearings, the Justice Department has contended that the detention
policy, which went into effect last August, was an essential component of a
strategy designed to regain control of the borders. Exclusionary hearings, in
which immigration magistrates sought to learn whether the Haitians had a ground
for political asylum, were stopped last September when another Federal district
judge here held that the present civil suit should be resolved first. Since
then, the Haitians' lot has been either to stay in detention or to sign a
voluntary withdrawal paper and be sent back. Few have signed.

''Clear policies were adopted in spite of, not because, Haitians concentrations
existed in south Florida,'' Mr. Bombaugh said today.  ''There was no question,
because of the conditions in South Florida, that we would be accused of setting
up black concentration camps.''

Right for Equal Treatment

Mr. Bombaugh said discrimination would have been a valid charge if the detention
policy had been put into effect ''because of'' the Haitian presence here.

One thrust of the Government's argument is that aliens who come to this country
without the necessary papers have no more right to full judicial review here
than ''people who stand in line at American consulate offices,'' Mr. Bombaugh
said. He said it was wrong to put the Haitians ahead of those ''patient'' enough
to go through channels and wait their turn.

Responding to a demand in the suit for ''equal treatment'' for Haitians, the
Justice Department has said the executive branch of the Government must retain
broad discretion in immigration matters and that the Government's flexibility to
deal with a crisis with the proportions of those in Poland or Afghanistan would
be ''hamstrung.''

''There are only three ways we could satisfy the criteria for equal treatment,''
Mr. Bombaugh said. ''One, parole everybody. Two, parole nobody. Three, throw all
the names in a hat and pull them out one at a time. Equal treatment in this
context could be discriminatory.''

His last words to Judge Spellman today were, ''We will not surrender enforcement
of the immigration laws. You will have to stop us.''

COUNTRY: HAITI (96%); UNITED STATES (94%);

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (93%);

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (93%);

COMPANY: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE  (94%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (94%);

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE  (94%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (94%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;HAITI; UNITED STATES  HAITI (96%); UNITED STATES (94%);   FLORIDA,
USA (93%);   MIAMI, FL, USA (93%);

SUBJECT: REFUGEES AND EXPATRIATES; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION  IMMIGRATION
(93%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (92%); JUDGES (91%); LAWYERS (90%); TERRITORIAL &
NATIONAL BORDERS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); REFUGEES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY
(90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); TESTIMONY (89%); POLITICAL ASYLUM (89%); US
PRESIDENTS (89%); IMMIGRANT DETENTION CENTERS (78%); WITNESSES (78%);
DISCRIMINATION (78%); PAROLE (78%); BORDER CONTROL (77%); SUITS & CLAIMS (76%);
RACE & RACISM (75%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              148 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 May 16, 1982, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

CLOSE-UP OF THE ILLEGAL IMMIGRATION ISSUE

SECTION: Section 4; Page 22, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 355 words


To the Editor:

It is easy for you, from your northern vantage point, to take up for the
''pitiful'' Haitians who have come into south Florida illegally, breaking our
immigration laws (editorial April 19). You urge the release of those detained,
so that they can disappear into the community and never show up for their
hearings, as so many others have done.v.hy don't you take up the cause of the
residents and merchants of northeast Miami, whose lives have been so terribly
affected by the massive influx of illegal Haitians, something which the release
of the detainees would begin all over again?

Our neighborhoods are deteriorating; our schools and hospitals are overcrowded;
our residents are exposed to contagious diseases that would bar legal
immigration; our streets are jammed with traffic; our welfare system is
overburdened, and our merchants are losing money.

While all this is going on, people who don't share our problem and don't have to
suffer what we are suffering tell us we shouldn't enforce the immigration laws
so that even more will come here.

As president of the Northeast Miami Improvement Association, which represents a
quarter of the city, with perhaps 70,000 people and several thousand businesses,
and as chairman of Miami's Planning Board, I urge you and your readers to think
about how you would like - not just for your city but for your neighborhood - to
bear the burden of 60,000 to 100,000 illegal aliens, most of them unskilled,
uneducated, unhealthy, illiterate, non-English-speaking and unacquainted with
modern customs, including sanitary practices and traffic laws. Perhaps you would
like to offer to take some of these people into your communities and
neighborhoods.

Immigration is fine, as long as it is orderly, legal and according to certain
standards. We have perfectly good immigration laws. Let's enforce them.  GRACE
A. ROCKAFELLAR Miami, April 20, 1982

COUNTRY: HAITI (95%); UNITED STATES (94%);

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (94%);

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (93%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;HAITI; MIAMI (FLA); FLORIDA; UNITED STATES  HAITI (95%); UNITED
STATES (94%);   FLORIDA, USA (94%);   MIAMI, FL, USA (93%);

SUBJECT: REFUGEES AND EXPATRIATES; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION  IMMIGRATION
(92%); IMMIGRATION LAW (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS
(89%); TRANSPORTATION LAW (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); DISEASES &
DISORDERS (74%); REFUGEES (72%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (55%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: letter

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              149 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                May 15, 1982, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

JUDGE OVERTURNS ABSCAM CONVICTION OF EX-LEGISLATOR

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 912 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 14


A Federal district judge overturned the bribery conviction of former
Representative Richard Kelly today, saying the Government had used
''outrageous'' tactics in the undercover Abscam inquiry.

Judge William B. Bryant said that agents of the Federal Bureau of Investigation,
posing as representatives of wealthy Arab sheiks seeking immigration assistance,
should have stopped importuning Mr.  Kelly after he rejected their initial bribe
offers. Instead, the judge said, they persisted in applying pressure on the
Florida Republican until he finally accepted $25,000 and stuffed it into his
pockets.

Judge Bryant's evaluation of the Abscam inquiry differed from those of judges in
New York and Pennsylvania. Lawyers said that the conflicts among the rulings
increased the likelihood that the Supreme Court would review the tactics of the
investigation, including such questions as how the Government selected its
targets and whether the agents offered excessive inducements to commit crimes.

Exceeding the Limits of Fairness

The Government, in effect, was ''testing the virtue'' of Mr. Kelly when there
was no reason to suspect his virtue, Judge Bryant said, adding that the
Government had exceeded the outer limits of ''fundamental fairness.''

''Law enforcement exceeds its bounds when it manufactures crime and creates
criminals,'' the judge said in his 25-page opinion.  Judge Bryant granted Mr.
Kelly's request for a judgment of acquittal, overruling the guilty verdict
returned by a jury on Jan.  26, 1981. Mr. Kelly was convicted of bribery and
conspiracy after a seven-week trial. He was the only Republican among the seven
members of Congress convicted on charges arising from the bureau's effort to
uncover political corruption by offering money in the guise of Arabs seeking
favors.

United Press International quoted Mr. Kelly as saying he was ''not feeling very
happy'' after the judge's ruling because he thought it did not address the
problem of a Federal agency that ''takes advantage of a Congressman in trouble
financially.''

''What the F.B.I. did was political,'' he said at a news conference in St.
Petersburg. ''We still have to deal with an F.B.I. that undertook to explode the
mind of the people with a story that just wasn't true.''

Judge Bryant presided over the Kelly trial and issued his ruling today on
post-trial motions by Mr. Kelly and his co-defendants, who asserted that the
Government had violated their constitutional rights to due process of law. That
argument is similar, but not identical, to the defense of entrapment.

The judge also ordered a new trial for two men who were indicted and convicted
with Mr. Kelly: Eugene Robert Ciuzio, a business consultant from Longwood, Fla.,
and Stanley Weisz, an accountant from Smithtown, L.I. The judge said his
different rulings for Mr. Kelly and the other men were justified by a
''disparity in the amount of evidence'' presented against the various
defendants. A Justice Department spokesman, Thomas M. Stewart, said there was a
''strong presumption'' that the Government would appeal Judge Bryant's rulings
to the United States Court of Appeals here. He said no final decision had been
made.

In November 1980, a Federal district judge in Philadelphia dismissed the Abscam
convictions of two city officials, saying they had been ''entrapped'' by the
Government. But in February the United States Court of Appeals for the Third
Circuit reinstated the convictions, finding that the defendants' rights had not
been violated.

At his trial, Mr. Kelly contended that he had been conducting his own
investigation of ''shady characters.'' Judge Bryant described this as a
''bizarre, nearly farcical defense,'' adding that there was ''not a scintilla of
evidence'' to support it.

He acknowledged that he had had a ''personal sense of revulsion'' and a ''strong
visceral reaction'' against the Government's tactics in the Kelly case.

In a videotape shown at the trial, Mr. Kelly took the $25,000 after promising to
do what he could to help two wealthy Arab sheiks immigrate to the United States.
The ''sheiks'' had been invented by the bureau.

When Federal agents and informers first approached Mr. Kelly, Judge Bryant said,
''No one in the Government had even the remotest suspicion about the existence
of any prior, ongoing or imminent criminal activity of this type.'' In other
words, he said, ''there was nothing to trigger traditional law-enforcement
activities until the Government made its overtures.''

'An Unwholesome Spectacle'

''Government agents, hard about the business of corrupting public officials who
are free of suspicion, essentially subvert our Government; and on its face this
presents an unwholesome spectacle,'' Judge Bryant declared.

''When improper proposals are rejected in these virtue-testing ventures, the
guinea pig should be left alone. In ordinary real-life situations, anyone who
would seek to corrupt a Congressman would certainly not continue to press in the
face of a rejection for fear of being reported and arrested. The F.B.I., of
course, had no such restraints in this case.''

The judge said he had been ''disappointed and chagrined'' to see Mr. Kelly, on
videotape, yielding to temptation and stuffing $100 bills into his pockets.

''But in reality,'' he said, ''the hard fact is that our public servants are not
recruited from the seminaries and monasteries across the land and that they are
plagued by the frailties of human nature.''

INDUSTRY: SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (53%);

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%);

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%);

COMPANY: UNITED PRESS INTERNATIONAL INC (53%);   FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

 (58%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (58%);

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION  (58%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF
INVESTIGATION (58%);

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%);   FLORIDA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%);
PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%);

SUBJECT: BRIBERY; DECISIONS AND VERDICTS; INTELLIGENCE SERVICES  LITIGATION
(94%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (93%); JUDGES (93%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%);
LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); VERDICTS (90%); LEGISLATORS (90%); CRIMINAL
CONVICTIONS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); BRIBERY (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS
(90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); US FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT (78%); SUPREME COURTS (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); CONSPIRACY

 (78%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (78%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (78%); JURY TRIALS (78%);
INDICTMENTS (78%); LAWYERS (75%); DUE PROCESS (74%); ACQUITTAL (73%);
IMMIGRATION (72%); CONSULTING SERVICES (70%); ENTRAPMENT (68%); INTELLIGENCE
SERVICES (66%); PRESS CONFERENCES (63%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: photo of Richard Kelly (Page 35)

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              150 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 May 10, 1982, Monday, Late City Final Edition

'OUTCAST' NEEDS CONGRESS AID TO STAY IN U.S.

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 13, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 702 words

DATELINE: BISMARCK, N.@D., May 8


Eight years after he was found near death in the Ecuadorean jungle, Juan Ramirez
is educated, healthy and fighting to keep from being returned to South America,
where he believes he would be an outcast.

But the Immigration and Naturalization Service says that only a special bill in
Congress will allow him to stay, and action on it has been stalled since a House
subcommittee rejected it, saying he must exhaust all administrative remedies
first.

Mr. Ramirez, who is now 22 or 23 years old, will graduate June 6 from the Anne
Carlsen School for the Physically Handicapped in Jamestown, N.D., and wants to
study electronics in a vocational school.

He cannot apply for citizenship, however, because he has no blood relatives here
and no job skill and is neither a refugee nor a ''professional of distinguished
merit or ability,'' said Gerald Coyle, the immigration agency's district
director in St. Paul.

Unwanted and Critically Ill

When missionaries found Juan in 1974, he was wracked by convulsions and his body
was wasted by parasites. He was scorned by his family, unwanted because of his
deformities.

The missionaries who found him said his left foot was twisted nearly upside down
because of polio when he was 3 years old. His right foot protruded at a
90-degree angle.

''He was suffering from malnutrition, four or five kinds of worms and amoebas
and a low hemoglobin count, which brought on the convulsions,'' said Dr. Devota
Nowland, an osteopath in Armada, Mich., who helped bring him to the United
States.

''He was treated as an outcast by people outside of his family and would have
suffered a great deal or died had he not been brought to the United States,''
Dr. Nowland said.

Reportedly Sold to Cafe Operator

Mr. Ramirez, who does not know when he was born, was one of seven illegitimate
children, Miss Nowland said. Missionaries and others told her that he was sold
to a woman who ran a small cafe in Chaco.  Mr. Ramirez said he peeled vegetables
for ''one or two meals a day'' and slept on a straw pallet. At 15, when he had
corrective surgery in a missionary hospital in Quito, he weighed 60 pounds.

His hips and legs remain shriveled, but he gets around slowly with leg braces
and a crutch.  He still does not know where his family is. ''They're sort of
moving around,'' he added. ''They go where my mother can find work, field work,
milking cows.''

He denied that his mother had sold him and said, ''I was her son, and even
though I couldn't help her, I think she still loved me.''

Adoption Efforts Failed

Miss Nowland, who was on vacation in Quito, brought Mr. Ramirez to Michigan. She
tried to adopt him, but Ecuadorean law prohibits a single woman from adopting a
boy.

Through a Fargo, N.D., adoption agency, Mr. Ramirez found his way to a farm
owned by Vic and Olga Karges near Hazen, N.D. They too tried to adopt him, but
he was then past 16 and too old, the immigration agency said.

Miss Nowland started the process of trying to extend his temporary visitor visa,
and the Kargeses are continuing the effort.  ''The only relief is what they are
doing, trying to get a private bill through Congress,'' said Mr. Coyle of the
immigration agency, adding that there would be no deportation action until
Congress acted.

Bill Approved by Senate

The bill was approved by the Senate last Oct. 27, but the House subcommittee
rejected it in February.  Representative Byron L. Dorgan, Democrat of North
Dakota, said he had the subcommittee to reconsider and planned to tell each
member ''the adversity this boy has overcome and why he deserves a chance to
stay here permanently.''

The alternative is to reopen the deportation hearings, said Betty Hum, the
Kargeses' attorney.  ''I don't know what 'administrative remedy' they're talking
about,'' said Senator Quentin N. Burdick, Democrat of North Dakota.  ''I think
it's a real strong humanitarian case.''

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (57%);

INDUSTRY: NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (57%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS

 (57%);

COUNTRY: ECUADOR (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); SOUTH AMERICA (92%);

STATE: NORTH DAKOTA, USA (93%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%);

CITY: BISMARCK, ND, USA (93%);

COMPANY: XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD  (57%); XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (57%);   IMMIGRATION
& NATURALIZATION SERVICE  (58%); IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE (58%);

ORGANIZATION: IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE  (58%); IMMIGRATION &
NATURALIZATION SERVICE (58%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES  ECUADOR (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); SOUTH AMERICA
(92%);   NORTH DAKOTA, USA (93%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%);   BISMARCK, ND, USA
(93%);

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; HANDICAPPED; LAW AND LEGISLATION
IMMIGRATION (90%); LEGISLATION (77%); REFUGEES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT
(77%); NATURALIZATION (77%); CITIZENSHIP LAW (77%); ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE
(76%); VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL TRAINING (75%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (62%);
CITIZENSHIP (58%); MALNUTRITION (58%); DISABLED PERSONS (55%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              151 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 May 8, 1982, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

BRIEFING

BYLINE: By Francis, X. Clines and Lynn Rosellini

SECTION: Section 1; Page 11, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 159 words


Alien Roundup: A Backfire

I n the attempt last week by the Immigration and Naturalization Service to round
up illegal aliens, called Operation Jobs, Federal officials questioned legal
residents whom they took for people of Hispanic origin.

When Representive Patricia Schroeder heard that 71 of the 107 people apprehended
in Colorado were legal residents, she wired Attorney General William French
Smith: ''How would you like it if everyone on Wall Street wearing a three-piece
suit was arrested on suspicion of tax evasion?''

The Colorado Democrat also said the announced aim of Operation Jobs, making jobs
held by aliens available to unemployed Americans, was ''a subterfuge to avoid
Administration responsibility for the rotten economic conditions in America.''

A Justice Department spokesman said, ''The results were much better in some
other areas.''

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); HAITI (79%);

STATE: COLORADO, USA (94%);

COMPANY: IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE  (91%); IMMIGRATION &
NATURALIZATION SERVICE (91%);

ORGANIZATION: IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE  (91%); IMMIGRATION &
NATURALIZATION SERVICE (91%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; HAITI; COLORADO  UNITED STATES (94%); HAITI (79%);
   COLORADO, USA (94%);

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; ILLEGAL ALIENS  IMMIGRATION (93%); ILLEGAL
IMMIGRANTS (91%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (88%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (88%); LAW
ENFORCEMENT (88%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (87%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); TAX FRAUD

 (72%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (70%); ARRESTS (54%); ECONOMIC NEWS (51%);

PERSON: PATRICIA SCHROEDER  (58%); WILLIAM FRENCH SMITH  (57%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              152 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 7, 1982, Friday, Late City Final Edition

U.S. USING TOUGHER POLICY ON ASYLUM FOR AFGHANS

BYLINE: By PETER KIHSS

SECTION: Section B; Page 3, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 875 words


The Federal Government has taken a tougher stand to bar Afghan applicants for
political asylum. It is charging some with attempting to ''circumvent our
immigration law,'' even though they might face persecution at home.

A State Department letter that became known yesterday gave attempts to
circumvent the law as the reason for the detainment of 34 Afghans at the
Brooklyn immigration center. The Afghans have been denied parole while awaiting
hearings, some for four months.

They are the only Afghans now in custody. More than 6,000 others have won
refugee status or asylum elswhere in the United States since Soviet troops
rolled into Afghanistan in December 1979.

Thousands More Applying

Refugee applications of 5,000 to 6,000 more Afghans are being processed abroad,
the State Department indicated yesterday, and they are in addition the Afghans
who come to the United States and then apply for asylum. Of that number, 1,096
were awaiting decisions as of Jan. 31, according to the Immigration and
Naturalization Service.

To win asylum, Federal law requires that an applicant establish a well-grounded
fear of persecution in his homeland. The fear must be based on race, religion,
political affiliation, membership within a social group or nationality.

Applications for asylum go first to the State Department's Bureau of Human
Rights and Humanitarian Affairs, which evaluates the application and makes a
recommendation, based on its sources abroad.

Six May Lose Asylum Bid

The State Department has now recommended denial of asylum for six of the 34
Afghans detained in Brooklyn. The Afghans came to this country from Pakistan - a
first stop for many who flee Afghanistan.

A bureau letter said that ''the applicants have established a wellfounded fear
of persecution in Afghanistan,'' but that ''they did not apply for refugee
resettlement in the United States while they were in Pakistan.''

Accordingly, it said, ''We do not believe their application for asylum should be
approved because of the misuse of our immigration laws.'' It quoted President
Reagan as having said last July 17 that neither the United States nor any other
nation could absorb all would-be entrants.

''Asylum in the United States is intended to provide a sanctuary for persons
fleeing persecution,'' the bureau wrote. ''It is not intended to be a substitute
for or an alternative to the immigration laws policy of this country and should
not become a vehicle of convenience for applicants who may wish to circumvent
our immigration law.''

The number of Afghan refugees has been soaring, with perhaps a fifth of
pre-invasion Afghanistan's population now abroad. Pakistan has 2.7 million
Afghans registered currently, according to the office of the United Nations High
Commissioner for Refugees in Washington.  Pakistan plans to accommodate an
average of 2.1 million Afghans this year, up from an average of 1.7 million last
year.

For the fiscal year started last Oct. 1, the Federal Government has allocated
4,000 refugee places for Afghans out of a total of 140,000 refugee places. The
4,000 come from the 5,000 places reserved for refugees from the Near East,
defined as the area from Morocco to India and Bangladesh. That number is up from
3,500 in fiscal 1981.

President Sets Number

The number of refugee places is set by the President after consultation with the
Judiciary Committees of Congress.  Paula Lynch, Near East program officer in the
department's refugee program, said several hundred Afghans were admitted as
refugees in the first year after the Soviet invasion, followed by 2,829 in
fiscal 1981 and 1,500 from last October through last April. Refugee applicants
are interviewed and approved at offices in Pakistan, India, Frankfurt and Rome.

Of those Afghans who arrived without refugee status and then filed an
application, 140 were granted asylum from October through January of this fiscal
year, and 70 were denied it, according to Duane Austin, a spokesman for the
Immigration and Naturalization Service.  In fiscal 1981, 201 were approved and
131 denied.

Waiver Required for Release

Mr. Austin said the 34 Afghans in in Brooklyn were being held under exclusion
provisions that bar them from being released pending hearing unless they get a
waiver from a district director.

Arthur C. Helton, director of the political asylum project for the Lawyers
Committee for International Human Rights, said parole had been granted to all
102 Afghans and 65 other aliens who arrived in New York and asked for asylum
between January 1981 and last November.

This fact, he said, was presented in a hearing in December, in which it was
successfully argued that the Government had discriminated against 86 Haitians
that it had held in Brooklyn since the previous July. Thereafter, said Mr.
Helton, a new guideline said parole in exclusion cases would be granted only to
children under the age of 16, aliens with close family members here or those
pregnant or ill.

COUNTRY: AFGHANISTAN (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); PAKISTAN (94%);

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%);

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%);

COMPANY: IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE  (55%); IMMIGRATION &
NATURALIZATION SERVICE (55%);

ORGANIZATION: IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE  (55%); IMMIGRATION &
NATURALIZATION SERVICE (55%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;AFGHANISTAN; UNITED STATES  AFGHANISTAN (99%); UNITED STATES (96%);

 PAKISTAN (94%);   NEW YORK, USA (94%);   NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%);

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; REFUGEES AND EXPATRIATES  POLITICAL ASYLUM
(94%); IMMIGRATION (93%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%);
REFUGEES (90%); POLITICS (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS (77%); POPULATION SIZE (73%);
UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (72%); APPROVALS (71%); PAROLE (71%); RELIEF
ORGANIZATIONS (70%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); RELIGION (51%);

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (52%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: photo of Afghans at Brooklyn immigration center

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              153 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 7, 1982, Friday, Late City Final Edition

ALIEN RAIDS OPENED UP JOBS, AIDE SAYS

BYLINE: By JO THOMAS, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section B; Page 11, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1050 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 6


A series of raids by the Immigration and Naturalization Service rounded up 5,440
employed aliens and persuaded 4,071 of them to leave the country, according to
Joseph Salgado, the agency's associate commissioner for enforcement.

The well-publicized ''Project Jobs,'' intended to force illegal aliens out of
decent-paying jobs that could be held by unemployed citizens, produced a clamor
of job-seekers in some places.

The immigration service gave state employment services and community groups the
names of the businesses where aliens lacking the proper documents had been taken
off the payroll. But how many of the jobs will be filled by citizens is unknown.
The agency estimated that the jobs paid a total of $50.3 million a year.

The April raids came on the eve of detailed Congressional scrutiny of a bill,
the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1982, that today was considered line
by line in a Senate subcommittee and sent to the full Judiciary Committee.

'Game Plan' Denied

Alan Nelson, the Commissioner of Immigration and Naturalization, said there was
''no game plan'' linking the arrests to the legislation. He said the raids were
planned in February.

Nonetheless, questions raised about the raids, such as the degree to which
illegal aliens contribute to unemployment among citizens and the degree to which
employers are culpable, are part of the discussion of immigration reform. The
bill under consideration in the Senate subcommittee would introduce penalties
for those employing illegal aliens; the employers face no sanctions at present.

In an interview last week, Rudolph W. Giuliani, the Associate Attorney General,
said the raids took place in Chicago, Dallas, Denver, Detroit, Houston, Los
Angeles, Newark, New York and San Francisco. Most of the aliens apprehended
voluntarily agreed to leave the country; the others are facing deportation
hearings.

The top-paying job involved, according to Mr. Salgado, paid $10.08 an hour at
the Burlington Northern Railroad in Chicago. At an automobile parts concern in
Chicago, he said, more than 30 undocumented workers were making $7 to $9 an
hour. The average wages of those arrested nationwide was $4.81, Mr. Salgado
said. In Chicago, more than 1,500 people applied for 161 vacated jobs.

Some May Reduce Workforce

A number of employers whose companies were raided, however, said that they might
not hire any new workers right away. Some said the downturn in the economy would
have forced layoffs in any case. Others said they still did not think they could
find citizens who wanted to do the work. One said he could not rapidly train
replacements.

At the Price Pfister Brass Manufacturing Company in Pacoima, Calif., where 80
workers were arrested, 1,000 applications were accepted, but the concern may not
do any hiring.

''Of those who were taken,'' said Peter Gold, a company spokesman, ''50 have
come back, and we are proceeding on the assumption that they have their
documents and have been released. Ten have said they are involved in
administrative hearings. Under the terms of our union contract, 20 people have
been terminated for being missing for three full days. We don't know whether
we're going to replace them. There is a recession. We've done no hiring for a
year and a half.''

In New Jersey, where raids led to the arrest of 172 illegal aliens in 23
factories, Winifred Brady, the assistant director of the Division of Employment
Services of the State Department of Labor, said six workers had been placed so
far at $3.50 an hour.

Layoffs a Possibility

Walter Gibson, controller of the Carolyn Shoe Company in Monterey Park, Calif.,
said that the raids had caused layoffs at his company, where 80 of 240 workers
were arrested.

''A line of production has to have every position filled,'' he said. ''You take
out one third of the workers, and you have holes. On Monday, we laid off 30.
Yesterday we laid off 10 more. We have ads in the papers for experienced help.
But we have no manpower to train people off the street.''

He said that his company, because of foreign competition, paid only $5 to $6 an
hour after long training.  Mr. Gibson said that although 40 of those arrested
had returned to work, ''It'll be weeks before we can get the thing rolling. But
we're not going to make poor shoes because of it.''

Another employer, Bruce Vaughan, part-owner of the Boulder Valley Poultry Farm,
Boulder, Colo., said: ''We've had an ad in the paper for a long time, but
usually people will not work in a poultry house. Half an hour later, they walk
out. We don't pay less than $3.50 an hour, but they'd rather take welfare.''

Fleeing Worker Killed

Last Friday morning, a worker Mr. Vaughan knew as James Gonzalez, who had papers
identifying him as Jose Morales, fled as immigration agents pulled up at the
farm. In his panic, according to Mr. Vaughan, Mr. Morales ran to the main road
and into the path of a gravel truck which struck and killed him.

The raids, in which 4,908, or 87 percent, of the 5,635 arrested were Mexican,
have come under attack from Hispanic groups. The total of 5,635 included both
employed aliens apprehended at job sites and others arrested at the sites.

''We're appalled at the raids,'' said Joaquin Avila, president and general
counsel of the Mexican American Legal Defense and Educational Fund. ''This will
seriously affect the rights of Hispanics when they seek employment.''

Arnaldo Torres, a spokesman for the League of United Latin American Citizens,
said he felt that the raids would crystallize opposition to the immigration bill
now before the Senate Subcommittee on Immigration and Refugee Policy. The bill,
sponsored by Senator Alan K. Simpson, Republican of Wyoming, and Representative
Romano L.  Mazzoli, Democrat of Kentucky, contains penalties for employers who
hire illegal aliens.

''Employer sanctions are a key part of the bill and have been since the
beginning,'' Senator Simpson said. ''Now it's illegal for an illegal alien to
work, but not for an employer to hire him.''

TICKER: BNI (NYSE) (53%);

INDUSTRY: NAICS332913 PLUMBING FIXTURE FITTING & TRIM MANUFACTURING (50%);
SIC3432 PLUMBING FIXTURE FITTINGS & TRIM (50%);

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%);

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); COLORADO,
USA (79%);

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA
(79%); DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); DENVER, CO, USA
(79%);

COMPANY: PRICE PFISTER INC (50%);   IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE  (91%);

 IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE (91%);

ORGANIZATION: IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE  (91%); IMMIGRATION &
NATURALIZATION SERVICE (91%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES  UNITED STATES (94%);   CALIFORNIA,
USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%);   LOS
ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); DALLAS,
TX, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); DENVER, CO, USA (79%);

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; ILLEGAL ALIENS; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB
MARKET  IMMIGRATION (93%); IMMIGRATION LAW (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%);
ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); FOREIGN
LABOR (89%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (89%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (78%); WAGES & SALARIES

 (78%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); NATURALIZATION (78%);
LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%);
LAYOFFS (76%); LEGISLATION (73%); DEPORTATION (73%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (72%);
ARRESTS (71%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (70%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (68%); JUSTICE
DEPARTMENTS (64%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (50%);

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (54%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              154 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                May 5, 1982, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

U.S. AUTHORITIES DETAIN AFGHANS AT BROOKLYN SITE

BYLINE: By SUSAN CHIRA

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 489 words


Thirty-four Afghans who said they fled political persecution in Afghanistan are
being held in the Immigration and Naturalization Service detention center in
Brooklyn. Some have been detained for as long as four months pending deportation
hearings.

Although in the past many aliens have been released to sponsors in the community
pending the hearings, the Afghans have been denied permission to leave the
center at 136 Flushing Avenue. They have been detained, said James A. Jaysey,
deputy district director of the service's regional office, because they did not
have proper papers when they entered the United States.

''For four years, not one second was comfortable in Afghanistan and still I am
in the same conditions here,'' said Mansour Osmani, who is 29 years old and has
been held for 45 days. ''I heard that American people will help us.''

2 Worked for U.S. Agency

Mr. Osmani, who said he had been a banker in Afghanistan, was one of nine
Afghans interviewed yesterday at the detention center. Two of those held said
they had worked in Afghanistan for the American Government's Agency for
International Development.

The group included a professor of agriculture, four high-school students and a
70 year-old factory supervisor. Some spoke English and some spoke through an
interpreter, Akunshiram Abnashkumar, who said all 34 had been persecuted in
Afghanistan.

Immigration officials said that because many in the group had come to the United
States from Pakistan, where they did not face political persecution, they might
not be entitled to political asylum. Pakistan is the first stop for people
fleeing Afghanistan.

Immigration officials said that it was policy to detain most aliens until their
cases can be heard.

Discrimination Issue Raised

But human rights advocates and lawyers who specialize in immigration matters
said the Afghans, some of whom said they did have relatives in this country,
were being held to demonstrate that the immigration service did not discriminate
against a group of Haitians that had earlier been refused permission to leave
the center.

On March 5, Judge Robert L. Carter of the Federal District Court in Manhattan
ruled that the agency had discriminated against a group of Haitians that had
been held since July 18 in the Brooklyn center while all other groups who had
requested parole had been released.  The ruling is being appealed.

''The I.N.S. seems to be engaged in a post hoc attempt to justify what they have
been doing to the Haitians,'' said Aryeh Neier, vice chairman of Helsinki Watch,
a human rights group.

Mr. Jaysey said that although aliens had been released to sponsors in the past,
guidelines issued in December 1981 state that parole is granted only to children
under 16 years old, those aliens with close family members or those who are
pregnant or ill.

COUNTRY: AFGHANISTAN (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); PAKISTAN (92%);

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%);

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%);

COMPANY: ROBERT L SIGMON (52%);   AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT  (55%);
AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (55%);

ORGANIZATION: AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT  (55%); AGENCY FOR
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (55%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;AFGHANISTAN; NEW YORK CITY  AFGHANISTAN (98%); UNITED STATES (96%);

 PAKISTAN (92%);   NEW YORK, USA (96%);   NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%);

SUBJECT: REFUGEES AND EXPATRIATES  IMMIGRATION (93%); IMMIGRANT DETENTION
CENTERS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); PAROLE (89%); IMMIGRATION LAW (89%);

 HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS (89%); DISCRIMINATION (86%);
POLITICAL ASYLUM (78%); REFUGEES (78%); DEPORTATION (78%); LAWYERS (74%);
STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (66%); LAW COURTS
& TRIBUNALS (61%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (52%); HIGH SCHOOLS
(51%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              155 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 May 4, 1982, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

ALIENS SEIZED BY U.S. REPORTED BACK AT WORK

BYLINE: By RONALD SULLIVAN

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 919 words


Several companies in the New York metropolitan area where illegal aliens were
rounded up last week reported yesterday that many of them had been released from
custody and were back at their old jobs.

And some companies said that few, if any, unemployed American citizens had
applied for the jobs that were freed by the raids and which the Government said
were rightfully theirs. The companies were major targets of a roundup by the
Federal Immigration and Naturalization Service.

Americans Called Uninterested

''Except for four or five, all of the aliens that were arrested here last week
are back at work this morning,'' said Anthony Spinale, the president of the G &
T Fruit Company at 230 West 230th Street in the Bronx. According to the
Government, 22 illegal aliens were seized at Mr. Spinale's produce-packing
warehouse April 26.

Mr. Spinale and officials of the other raided companies asserted that there was
little demand for their jobs by unemployed American citizens - a view that drew
some support from officials of the New York State Department of Labor.

''It also may be true what the employers are saying,'' said Art Winick, speaking
for the department. ''That these are marginal jobs that most people are not
interested in.'' However, he said he did not know whether people who might want
the jobs were aware of their availablility.

The Immigration Service conducted raids in eight cities besides New York. The
results in terms of job applications were still incomplete yesterday.

At one of the New York companies -Plated Plastic Industries Inc., 381 Troutman
Street in the Bushwick section of Brooklyn - Nick Amish, the company's vice
president, said that 15 or so of the 23 workers seized at the plant last week
were back at work.

At another - the Phalanx Furniture Company in Wantagh, L.I. - Irving Lieberman,
the president, said that about five of the 20 or so employees seized by
immigration agents were back at work yesterday after having been released from
custody.

Mr. Spinale, still fuming at what he called a ''kindergarten raid'' on his
plant, said, ''I can't recall one American coming in here and asking me for a
job.''

According to Mr. Amish, not one American has applied for work at his company
since the raid. ''American citizens don't want to work for the minimum wage,''
he said. ''There's no sense kidding ourselves - they simply can't get by on
$3.35 an hour. Aliens are the only people who will work for the minimum wage.''

''It was true 30 or 40 years ago for Italians and Greeks,'' he added, ''and it's
still true today for Hispanics, and it will be true for someone else 20 years
from now.''

Mr. Lieberman said he could use 10 skilled cabinetmakers for his Long Island
furniture company. ''But my unskilled jobs go begging if aliens don't take
them,'' he said.

''We runs ads for unskilled workers and we don't get any response,'' he added.
''The only ones who want these kind of jobs are aliens.''

At the J. J. Cassone Bakery Inc. in Port Chester, N.Y., where Government agents
seized 25 illegal aliens last week, a company official said that only one of 50
Americans who had applied for work was interested in working at the same pay
scale - and on the same schedule, nights and weekends - as the seized aliens.

'Majority' of Aliens Freed

The apprehension of about 5,500 illegal aliens last week at job sites across the
country was described by immigration officials as an attempt to recapture jobs
paying more than the minimum wage for unemployed American citizens.

According to immigration officials, the ''overwhelming majority'' of those
arrested have been released, pending deportation hearings.  They said most of
them of Hispanic origin. Officials said it was not unlawful to employ an illegal
alien.

William S. Slattery, the chief of special investigations for the Immigration
Service's office in New York, said that 523 illegal aliens were seized at about
50 companies in the New York area.

''We are very satisfied with the results,'' he said. ''We have created 500 jobs
for unemployed Americans, some of them paying $5 an hour or better.''

State Says Few Have Applied

Asked if he knew of any company that had hired any American citizens as a result
of the arrests, Mr. Slattery said that the New York State Department of Labor
had been handling that aspect of the operation.

Joanne Palmieri, an official of the state employment service, said preliminary
reports showed that ''very few applicants have expressed any interest thus far
in the jobs of the aliens that were arrested.''

Mr. Winick, the department spokesman, said that filling the jobs with citizens
would be a ''lengthy process.'' He also said, ''It is highly unlikely that the
jobs that the aliens were pulled off have been referred to us in certified
form.''

----

Mexico Protests Aliens' Treatment

MEXICO CITY, May 3 (AP) - Mexico has accused the United States of violating the
rights of an undetermined number of the illegal aliens rounded up in last week's
sweep, which involved nine American cities. A story in the official Government
newspaper El Nacional said the Foreign Ministry had accused American immigration
officials of violating diplomatic procedure by denying Mexican consular
officials interviews with Mexicans arrested in the sweep.

INDUSTRY: NAICS326160 PLASTICS BOTTLE MANUFACTURING (66%); SIC3085 PLASTICS
BOTTLES (66%);

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%);

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%);

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%);

COMPANY: PLASTIC INDUSTRIES INC (66%);   IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE
(57%); IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE (57%);

ORGANIZATION: IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE  (57%); IMMIGRATION &
NATURALIZATION SERVICE (57%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES; NEW YORK CITY  UNITED STATES (98%);
   NEW YORK, USA (96%);   NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%);

SUBJECT: ILLEGAL ALIENS; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB
MARKET  ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (92%); IMMIGRATION (91%); EMPLOYMENT (91%); CITIES
(90%); THIS DAY IN HISTORY (78%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (77%); WAGES & SALARIES
(77%); MINIMUM WAGE (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%);

 ARRESTS (55%); PLASTICS (50%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              156 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 May 4, 1982, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

U.S. ALLOWS REVIEW OF 2 HAITIAN CAMPS

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 15, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 670 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 3


The United States has agreed for the first time to let an international body
examine conditions at two camps where Haitians are being detained, in Florida
and in Puerto Rico.

The Inter-American Commission on Human Rights, an arm of the Organization of
American States, asked for permission to inspect Fort Allen, P.R., and the Krome
North camp near Miami after receiving complaints of human rights violations at
the two centers.

The State Department and the Immigration and Naturalization Service denied that
any of the Haitians' rights had been violated but agreed to let the group
examine the conditions in which they were being held.

Verne Jervis, a spokesman for the immigration service, said today that there
were 555 Haitians at Krome North and 771 at Fort Allen, the site of an old Army
base and Navy communications center.

Hearings 'Stymied by Litigation'

''We detain all aliens pending exclusion hearings,'' Mr. Jervis said. ''Hearings
on the Haitians have been stymied by litigation.'' The original complaint was
filed in 1979 by the International Human Rights Law Group, a nonprofit public
interest law firm, on behalf of the National Council of Churches and 8,000
Haitians seeking refuge in the United States.

The basic charge, said Amy Young-Anawaty, executive director of the law group,
is that ''innocent people are being detained in unlawful, inhumane conditions
and should be released.''

The United States initially opposed any investigation by the O.A.S. commission,
on the ground that the Haitians were litigating the same issues in Federal
courts and had not exhausted the remedies there. However, when the commission
decided to visit the camps, United States authorities said last week that they
would do all they could to help the official observers.

Formal Report May Follow

Normally after such a visit, the commission prepares a formal report with
recommendations and submits it to the General Assembly of the O.A.S., which can
then pass a resolution urging a country to improve human rights conditions.

Immigration officials said physical conditions at the Krome center, which has
permanent buildings, were somewhat better than at Fort Allen, where the Haitians
live in tents set up on a wooden platform.

David Carliner, an immigration lawyer who is chairman of the International Human
Rights Law Group, said he hoped that the O.A.S.  investigation would ''sensitize
the United States Government to the international implications'' of detaining
the Haitians. Federal authorities are holding a total of 2,025 Haitians at 14
sites.

Reagan Administration officials said that the detention of Haitians arriving in
Florida and the interception of boats suspected of carrying illegal immigrants
had sharply decreased the flow of Haitians in the last year. The officials said
President Reagan's policy was designed to prevent a mass migration of aliens
like the one in 1980, when 125,000 Cubans fled to the United States.

Extension Sought for Fort Allen

The Government's agreement with Puerto Rico to use Fort Allen as a detention
center expires in August. Michael J. Henke, a Washington attorney for the
Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, said the United States was negotiating to extend
the agreement for a year.

An extension would require approval from the United States Court of Appeals for
the First Circuit, in Boston, which issued an order limiting the use of Fort
Allen in certain ways designed to protect public health and the environment. The
First Circuit includes Puerto Rico.

Although the O.A.S. commission asked the United States to refrain from deporting
Haitians while it studied their complaint, the Government has proceeded with
deportation hearings and some deportations.

''The Haitians are being detained because they choose to stay,'' Mr. Jervis
said. ''They are free to return to Haiti at any time.''

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); HAITI (95%); PUERTO RICO (94%);

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (94%);

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (92%);

COMPANY: INTER-AMERICAN COMMISSION ON HUMAN RIGHTS (84%); ORGANIZATION OF
AMERICAN STATES  (77%); ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES (58%); GLOBAL RIGHTS
(55%); NATIONAL COUNCIL OF THE CHURCHES OF CHRIST IN THE USA (55%);

ORGANIZATION: INTER-AMERICAN COMMISSION ON HUMAN RIGHTS (84%); ORGANIZATION OF
AMERICAN STATES  (77%); ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES (58%); GLOBAL RIGHTS
(55%); NATIONAL COUNCIL OF THE CHURCHES OF CHRIST IN THE USA (55%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; HAITI  UNITED STATES (99%); HAITI (95%); PUERTO RICO

 (94%);   FLORIDA, USA (94%);   MIAMI, FL, USA (92%);

SUBJECT: REFUGEES AND EXPATRIATES; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; FREEDOM AND HUMAN
RIGHTS  IMMIGRATION (91%); HUMAN RIGHTS (91%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (90%);

 INVESTIGATIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%);
IMMIGRATION LAW (89%); REFUGEES (78%); MILITARY BASES (78%); US PRESIDENTS
(78%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (77%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (76%);
LAWYERS (73%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (73%); NAVIES (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS
(72%); ARMIES (72%); ARMED FORCES (68%); EXECUTIVES (65%); RELIGION (51%);

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (50%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              157 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 3, 1982, Monday, Late City Final Edition

CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION ASSAILS RAIDS FOR MAKING 'SCAPEGOATS' OF;
ALIENS

BYLINE: By PETER KIHSS

SECTION: Section A; Page 17, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 440 words


A nationwide Federal roundup that led to the arrests last week of 5,500 workers
suspected as illegal aliens was assailed yesterday by the American Civil
Liberties Union as ''playing with people's rights to score a public relations
victory.''

The raids, conducted from Monday to Friday by the United States Immigration and
Naturalization Service, will not significantly free jobs for legal American
residents, which was their stated purpose, but instead have cast basic
due-process rights ''by the wayside,'' the civil liberties group protested in
letters to President Reagan, Attorney General William French Smith and the
immigration agency.

About 500 people were arrested in the New York metropolitan area, according to
Stanley McKinley, the immigration service's regional director for the Eastrern
seaboard.

''The effort was distinctly to get at higher than minimum-wage conditions to
open up jobs,'' Mr. McKinley said.

'Street Sweeps' in Chinatown

Steven Shapiro, staff counsel for the New York Civil Liberties Union, reported
complaints of ''street sweeps'' in Chinatown and of gypsy cabs being halted in
the largely Hispanic Washington Heights section of upper Manhattan, going beyond
the searches of particular factories for which warrants had been obtained.

The Roman Catholic Archdiocese of New York, in a statement in Spanish, said it
had been told that the raids concentrated on factories that largely employ
''cheap hand labor,'' despite the immigration service's assertions that the aim
of the raids was to turn up illegal workers in the construction and computer
industries.

The New York area arrests forced the service to open an extra floor of its
detention facility in Brooklyn temporarily. But Verne Jervis, a spokesman for
the agency in Washington, said he believed that ''very few'' persons remained in
custody around the country after ''quite a few hundred'' voluntary deportations,
mostly to Mexico, and the release of others on bond or their own recognizance
pending hearings.

Charge of 'Scapegoating'

The A.C.L.U. letters by Ira Glasser, national director, and John Shattuck,
legislative director, charged that the Federal Government was ''scapegoating
undocumented workers in an effort to shift the blame for the Administration's
dismal failure to cope with increasing unemployment.''

They asserted that ''only 'foreign-looking workers' '' were being required to
prove legal status and cited reports of ''widespread denial of the right to
counsel and to timely bond hearing.''

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%);

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%);

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%);

COMPANY: AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION  (91%); AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION
(91%); US CITIZENSHIP & IMMIGRATION SERVICES (58%);

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION  (91%); AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES
UNION (91%); US CITIZENSHIP & IMMIGRATION SERVICES (58%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES  UNITED STATES (96%);   NEW YORK, USA (94%);   NEW
YORK, NY, USA (93%);

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; LABOR  IMMIGRATION (92%); ARRESTS (92%);
ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (90%); FOREIGN LABOR (89%);

 US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); DUE PROCESS (78%); BAIL (78%); DEPORTATION (78%);
ARREST WARRANTS (78%); RIGHT TO COUNSEL (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%);
LEGISLATORS (73%); MINIMUM WAGE (73%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); RELIGION (65%);
CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (51%);

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (57%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              158 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 2, 1982, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

The Nation in Summary;
U.S. Job Squads Arrest Aliens by the Hundreds

BYLINE: By Michael Wright and Caroline Rand Herron

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4, Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 340 words


The United States Immigration and Naturalization Service last week did what it
could to free up jobs for bona fide Americans, though not everyone appreciated
its efforts.

Altogether, 3,500 illegal aliens, many of them Mexican, were taken into custody
in raids staged in nine cities during a week-long ''Operation Jobs.'' Ted. L.
Giorgetti, an immigration service spokesman in Chicago, where more than 100 were
arrested, said the agency had received ''hundreds of calls'' from prospective
workers about the availability of jobs that had thus been opened.

Elsewhere, the results seemed rather more mixed. Officials in Detroit had to
release 71 of the 107 picked up there because they were able to produce proper
papers. Some employers, who aren't subject to penalties for hiring illegal
aliens, complained that the jobs being freed were not the sort to be snapped up,
as one put it, by white middle-class Americans. Said a manager of a California
poultry packing plant north of San Francisco: ''You hang up chickens and cut
their throats. They work in guts and blood and in a cold damp place all the
time. I wouldn't do that kind of work for anything.''

Immigration service spokesmen said that most of the aliens would be released if
they promised to return to their native country. Critics complained about
instances of Government heavy-handedness.

In Los Angeles, after charges that immigrants weren't being allowed to contact
lawyers, were being unfairly questioned and forced to sign voluntary deportation
orders, Federal District Judge William Matthew Byrne temporarily barred the
deportation of 150 of the 425 arrested locally. ''To say I.N.S. is really
interested in the rights of these people is absurd,'' the judge said. In
Boulder, Colo., a poultry farm employee said to be of Mexican extraction was
struck and killed by a gravel truck as he attempted to elude agents. Government
sweeps also took place in New York City, Dallas and Houston.

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%);

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); COLORADO,
USA (79%);

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); DALLAS, TX, USA (79%);

 SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (76%);

COMPANY: US CITIZENSHIP & IMMIGRATION SERVICES (93%);

ORGANIZATION: US CITIZENSHIP & IMMIGRATION SERVICES (93%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES  UNITED STATES (96%);   CALIFORNIA,
USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%);   LOS
ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); SAN
FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (76%);

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; ILLEGAL ALIENS

 IMMIGRATION (94%); ARRESTS (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); US FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); DEPORTATION (89%); NEWS BRIEFS (79%);
FOREIGN LABOR (78%); TRANSPORTATION SUPPORT SERVICES (73%); POULTRY PROCESSING
(72%); POULTRY (72%); JUDGES (69%); POULTRY & EGG PRODUCTION (67%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              159 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 May 1, 1982, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

JUDGE ORDERS IMMIGRATION AGENTS NOT TO ABUSE SALVADORAN REFUGEES

BYLINE: UPI

SECTION: Section 1; Page 14, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 719 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, April 30


A Federal judge today ordered agents of the Immigration and Naturalization
Service to stop threatening and abusing Salvadoran refugees and to advise them
they have the right to seek political asylum in the United States.

United States District Court Judge David Kenyon issued the 41-page preliminary
injunction at the request of the National Center for Immigrants' Rights, which
had asked the judge to prohibit the immigration service from illegal and
unconstitutional practices against refugees from the war in El Salvador.

'Verbal and Physical Abuse'

In the order, the judge held that immigration agents had used ''verbal and
physical abuse'' to try to get Salvadoran refugees to waive their right to apply
for political asylum.

''Salvadorans who resisted were told that their refusal would be of no avail and
eventually they would be deported to El Salvador anyway,'' the judge said.

Judge Kenyon ordered that the refugees be advised in both English and Spanish of
their rights, ''including securing the services of an attorney, having a
deportation hearing and applying for political asylum if they do not want to
return to their strife-torn homeland.'' The order also provided that the
refugees be given written notice of these rights.

'No Power' to Control Employees

David Inman, a lawyer with the immigration service in Washingtion, argued at the
hearing that the agency had no power to control the actions of its employees.

A spokesman for the agency said the ruling would be appealed to the Court of
Appeals for the 9th Circuit.  Judge Kenyon's order, which warns the Federal
agency it should ''not employ threats, misrepresentation, subterfuge or other
forms of coercion,'' follows a hearing held early last week.

The injunction applies to an estimated 25,000 Salvadoran refugees now detained
in the United States.  The judge found that Salvadoran refugees had been
illegally placed in solitary confinement as part of a national campaign to
guarantee their mass deportation, regardless of the merits of their individual
applications.

Prohibited Writing Materials

He said that the immigration service had also illegally prohibited detained
refugees from having pens, paper and other materials to help them prepare asylum
applications.

''An estimated 10,000 refugees have already been coerced into waiving their
rights to apply for asylum and involuntarily deported to El Salvador, where many
have faced death in prison and torture,'' said Peter Shey, the director of the
immigrants' center. ''We presented the judge with irrefutable evidence that
persons deported to El Salvador have been killed shortly after their return.''

Mr. Shey said the judge agreed that the agency's conduct had violated the
Constitution, the Refugee Act of 1980 and United Nations protocol on the status
of refugees.

Judge Kenyon directed the agency to submit a plan to the court within 10 days
for ''a national system'' to give the center 24 hours' notice prior to the
deportation of any Salvadoran refugee.

Mr. Shey described the injunction as ''a major victory for the Salvadoran
community'' in the United Sates.  ''We believe it will send a message to this
administration,'' he said, ''that it can no longer decide refugee policy on the
basis of foreign policy considerations, namely rejecting applications made by
those seeking safe haven in the United States after fleeing rightwing
governments supported by Washington.''

----

Alien Is Killed While Fleeing

BOULDER, Colo., April 30 (AP) - A man fleeing from a roundup of illegal aliens
today was killed by a gravel truck. The victim's identity was not immediately
known. Officials said he was of Mexican extraction and apparently worked for the
Boulder Valley Poultry Farm.

Witnesses said the man was standing in the farm parking lot and ran when agents
of the Immigration and Naturalization Service arrived.  Robert Hester of the
immigration service said agents were not aware of the incident until later.
''Nobody was in pursuit,'' he said. ''No one saw him.''

The raid was part of a nationwide crackdown on illegal aliens that has resulted
in the arrests of more than 5,000 people, according to Government officials. The
raids are aimed at apprehending people who have jobs that could be held by legal
United States residents.

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); EL SALVADOR (94%);

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (57%);

COMPANY: IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE  (91%); IMMIGRATION &
NATURALIZATION SERVICE (91%);

ORGANIZATION: IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE  (91%); IMMIGRATION &
NATURALIZATION SERVICE (91%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; SALVADOR, EL  UNITED STATES (97%); EL SALVADOR
(94%);   LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (57%);

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; REFUGEES AND EXPATRIATES  JUDGES (95%);
IMMIGRATION (94%); POLITICAL ASYLUM (93%); REFUGEES (91%); SETTLEMENTS &
DECISIONS (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%);
IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); INJUNCTIONS (89%); DEPORTATION (89%); TORTURE (78%);
AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS
(78%); APPEALS COURTS (77%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              160 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 May 1, 1982, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

AMERICA'S 'INVISIBLE' CHINESE

BYLINE: By Diana Fong

SECTION: Section 1; Page 27, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 859 words


We've been called the model minority, the silent minority. Sometimes we're too
insignificant in numbers to even count as a minority. Although the Chinese
population in the United States has surged in recent decades, we are still only
four-tenths of 1 percent of the entire population.

Who are we, and why are we so few in number?  Part of the answer dates back to
restrictive immigration legislation enacted in May 1882. Immigrant laborers,
welcome when the frontiers were expanding in the West, became targets of
anti-Chinese agitation, which led to passage of the Chinese Exclusion Act, the
United States' first statutory proscription of a group based on race. The act
was finally repealed by Congress in 1943.

Today, the Chinese in America are caught in a strange paradox of being both
noticed and ignored. Between the Hudson River and the Golden Gate, in San
Francisco, we are such a tiny, conspicuous group that we pique the friendly
curiosity and once in a while the hostility of people. Since large numbers of us
are also foreign-born, we're often treated like guests in this country - more
hospitably, but then we don't belong to the ''family.'' Chinese citizens are
sometimes viewed as aliens - even the ABC's (American-born Chinese).

At times, we don't count as a minority either. When the word ''minority''
appears in newspapers, only blacks and Hispanics are usually mentioned. Three
years ago, when I was a college intern for a television series about minorities,
a stunned white student remarked, ''Funny, I always thought you were white.''

We straddle an awkward middle ground - the buffer between whites and blacks.
We're accepted and we're not accepted - ''better'' than other minorities but not
good enough. Though we're included in affirmative-action programs, we're not
perceived as a ''disadvantaged'' group. Most often, we're viewed in a positive
light - as law-abiding citizens, math whizzes, and as so successful that we've
been dubbed the ''model minority.'' As a group, we ''out-white the whites'' in
scholastic achievement, occupational status, and median-income levels.

Though we've ''made it,'' discrimination still exists - it's just
better-disguised now. Once in a few years, I'll come across a blatant remark
such as: ''Why don't you go back to your own country?'' Most of the time,
prejudice doesn't rise to the surface, but we can sense it. I think minorities
develop special feelers that detect hostile undercurrents - like antennae that
pick up radio waves.

We've been called a ''silent minority'' because we tend to cope with prejudice
in quiet - ''inscrutable'' ways, others say, sometimes legitimately. During the
exclusion period, there were still Chinese who entered illegally by jumping ship
and others who trickled in because of immigration loopholes. Now, illegal
immigrants are scattered throughout the lowly paid sweatshops of this country's
Chinatowns.

Today, we're excluded in another sense - we're ignored. In schools, study is
almost exclusively centered on Western civilization.  Partly it's our own fault
that we're ignored. We keep a ''low profile.'' Chinese do not generally see
politics as a means of achieving group goals or to fight discrimination here in
the United States.

We don't even identify ourselves as a unified group. Since we speak different
dialects, we can't always communicate in Chinese. A majority is Cantonese. In
the 1940's and 1950's, a small but significant intellectual elite settled here,
virtually all displaced by the Communist revolution; the big wave from Hong Kong
and Taiwan started in the middle and late 1960's; in the 1970's, Southeast
Asians of Chinese descent arrived; most recently, a handful from the People's
Republic of China has come. And then, there are the American-born Chinese,
largely young, many Chinese in physical appearance only.

For many Chinese, the road to economic success, to acceptance and power, is
scholarship and commerce. A disproportionate number of us are entrepreneurs,
physicians, research scientists, engineers, and accountants. We also tend to
choose self-employment, partly because of discrimination in private industry.
There and elsewhere, while equal opportunity makes it easier to enter, it's
still harder for minorities to move up the institutional ladder. Thus,
discrimination limits occupational choice.

The rate of intermarriage between Caucasians and Chinese-Americans is relatively
high, an indication of increasing acceptance, but we're still not fully
integrated into the mainstream because of our yellow skin and almond eyes. Much
has changed in 100 years, but still we cannot escape the distinction of race.
---------------------------------------------------------------------
Diana Fong, who was born in the United States and who spent many years in Hong
Kong, conducts tours to the Orient and Soviet Union.

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); CHINA (92%);

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%);

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%);

COMPANY: GOLDEN GATE UNIVERSITY (56%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES  UNITED STATES (96%); CHINA (92%);   CALIFORNIA, USA
(79%);   SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%);

SUBJECT: CHINA; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; CULTURAL AND NATIONAL IDENTITY
IMMIGRATION (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RACE & RACISM (89%); ASIAN
AMERICANS (78%); DISCRIMINATION (78%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (78%); AFFIRMATIVE
ACTION IN EMPLOYMENT (78%); LEGISLATION (76%); IMMIGRATION LAW (76%); TELEVISION
PROGRAMMING (64%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (64%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION
(64%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: Photo of Chinese children

TYPE: op-ed

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              161 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 May 1, 1982, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

THE CITY;
Decision Deferred On Jailed Haitians

SECTION: Section 2; Page 31, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 125 words


A Federal appeals court reserved decision yesterday on whether to overturn a
lower court's order to release 53 Haitians held in an immigration detention
center in Brooklyn.

Their release had been ordered by District Judge Robert L. Carter, who said the
Immigration Service had discriminated against the Haitians by refusing to parole
them. His order was stayed pending a decision by the United States Court of
Appeals for the Second Circuit.

After the appeal was argued, about 20 supporters of the Haitians demonstrated in
front of the Foley Square Court House. The Rev.  Jesse Jackson said 2,700
Haitian refugees had been held in ''concentration camps'' in this country for
almost a year.

COUNTRY: HAITI (96%); UNITED STATES (94%);

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%);

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%);

COMPANY: ROBERT L SIGMON (58%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES; HAITI  HAITI (96%); UNITED STATES
(94%);   NEW YORK, USA (94%);   NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%);

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; DECISIONS AND VERDICTS; ILLEGAL ALIENS;
PRISONS AND PRISONERS  IMMIGRATION (93%); APPEALS COURTS (92%); IMMIGRANT
DETENTION CENTERS (90%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (90%); APPEALS (90%); JAIL
SENTENCING (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); PRISONS (88%); REFUGEES (88%);
JUDGES (88%); PAROLE (88%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (85%);

PERSON: JESSE JACKSON (57%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              162 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                April 30, 1982, Friday, Late City Final Edition

ROUNDUP OF ALIENS MEETING PROBLEMS

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

SECTION: Section A; Page 10, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 558 words


A week-long series of Government raids to remove illegal aliens from jobs that
could be held by unemployed Americans has run into growing criticism and a court
challenge.

About 3,500 people have been arrested by the Immigration and Naturalization
Service in nine cities since Monday, and clergymen, politicians and spokesmen
for minority groups in several of those cities have expressed opposition.

In Denver, the Roman Catholic Archbishop and the Episcopal Bishop signed a
statement protesting the crackdown. One priest said he was willing to harbor
people ''just as the church served as a refuge in the Middle Ages.''

Immigration officials in Detroit said they had to release 71 of the 107 people
picked up there when their families produced papers showing they were working
legally. The 36 others, officials said, ''probably will be deported.''

Duke Austin, a spokesman for the service, said the raids through Wednesday had
found 3,500 illegal aliens, who were earning an average of $4.70 an hour.

Court Order Obtained

In Los Angeles, lawyers for an immigrant rights group won a Federal court order
barring deportation of 150 of 425 Mexicans arrested there. A busload about to
leave was halted after Federal District Judge William Matthew Byrne Jr. ordered
all aboard to be asked whether they wanted a lawyer.

''To say I.N.S. is really interested in the rights of these people is absurd,''
Judge Byrne said.  Lawyers for four rights groups told Judge Byrne that
immigrants were being denied access to counsel and pressured into signing
voluntary deportation orders.

The judge broadened his order yesterday to require that immigration officers
advise those under detention of their rights before asking them how they got
into the country or offering them voluntary deportation forms. A lawyer for the
American Civil Liberties Union, Mark Rosenbaum, said that the case had been
certified as a class action and that Judge Byrne's order should apply
nationwide.

An affidavit quoted two aliens as saying that immigration officials had told
them a lawyer would cost $4,000 and that ''their fingers would be broken if they
refused to provide their fingerprints.''

Spokesman Says It's Routine

A spokesman for the immigration service in California said it was routine to
question suspected illegal aliens before they saw a lawyer.

In Denver, the Rev. Pat Valdez of Our Lady of Guadalupe Roman Catholic Church
said, ''People are hiding in their homes, afraid to leave.'' He said that many
residents in Denver suburbs had offered their homes as hiding places.

As he talked Wednesday night, Father Valdez was answering phone calls for help.
''We have a food bank and that woman just said she's been hiding in her house
since Monday and ran out of food,'' the priest said.

Maria Esther Aguayo, 21 years old, a naturalized citizen who lives in Colorado,
said she and a friend who had permanent resident status were arrested in a raid
Sunday at a nightclub.

She said: ''I kept telling them, 'I'm an American citizen,' but they just
laughed at me and said, 'You're going home. You're a wetback and you're going
home.' ''

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%);

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%);

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%);

COMPANY: IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE  (77%); IMMIGRATION &
NATURALIZATION SERVICE (58%);

ORGANIZATION: IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE  (77%); IMMIGRATION &
NATURALIZATION SERVICE (58%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES  UNITED STATES (96%);   CALIFORNIA, USA (92%);   LOS
ANGELES, CA, USA (79%);

SUBJECT: ILLEGAL ALIENS; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; UNITED STATES ECONOMY;
DISCRIMINATION  ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (92%); IMMIGRATION (91%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS
(91%); ARRESTS (90%); LAWYERS (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); RELIGION (90%);
IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); DEPORTATION (90%);
CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (89%); LITIGATION (78%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS
(78%); EMPLOYMENT (78%); NATURALIZATION (78%); INTERROGATION OF SUSPECTS (77%);
POLITICS (77%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (77%); EVIDENCE (77%); JUDGES (77%);
PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (77%); SUITS & CLAIMS (73%); CLASS ACTIONS (72%);
HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (72%); RIGHT TO COUNSEL (72%); FOOD CHARITIES (60%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              163 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               April 29, 1982, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

Aliens Crackdown Pressed

BYLINE: By United Press International

SECTION: Section B; Page 6, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 71 words


Federal agents arrested hundreds of suspected illegal aliens in nine cities
yesterday, continuing a crackdown that critics have denounced as ''racist
scapegoating'' designed to divert attention from unemployment. In Washington, an
Immigration and Naturalization Service spokesman said the weeklong ''Operation
Jobs'' was a success with more than 2,500 people already taken into custody.

COUNTRY: NORTH AMERICA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%);

COMPANY: IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE  (84%); IMMIGRATION &
NATURALIZATION SERVICE (84%);

ORGANIZATION: IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE  (84%); IMMIGRATION &
NATURALIZATION SERVICE (84%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES  NORTH AMERICA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%);

SUBJECT: ILLEGAL ALIENS; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; UNITED STATES ECONOMY
ARRESTS (91%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (91%); IMMIGRATION (90%); SPECIAL
INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); EMPLOYMENT (84%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              164 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               April 28, 1982, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

AROUND THE NATION;
250 More Are Arrested In Crackdown on Aliens

SECTION: Section A; Page 22, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 142 words


By The Associated Press
Immigration officers in New York and Houston arrested about 250 suspected
illegal aliens yesterday in the second day of a nationwide crackdown aimed at
aliens who work in well-paying jobs that could be held by United States
citizens.

The raids were started Monday by a group of 400 agents, and Immigration and
Naturalization Service officials said initial reports indicated as many as 1,000
aliens had been picked up in nine cities the first day.

Forty suspects had been picked up in New York City by midday yesterday,
according to William Slattery, supervising investigator for the agency. Agents
in New York and Newark arrested 191 people Monday.

In Houston yesterday, immigration agents arrested 200 people, bringing the
two-day total there to more than 400.

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%);

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (94%);

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%);

COMPANY: ASSOCIATED PRESS (73%);   IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE  (57%);
IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE (57%);

ORGANIZATION: IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE  (57%); IMMIGRATION &
NATURALIZATION SERVICE (57%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; NEW YORK CITY; HOUSTON (TEX); TEXAS  UNITED STATES
(94%);   NEW YORK, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (94%);   HOUSTON, TX, USA (94%); NEW
YORK, NY, USA (91%);

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; ILLEGAL ALIENS  IMMIGRATION (93%); ILLEGAL
IMMIGRANTS (91%); ARRESTS (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT
(88%); INVESTIGATIONS (69%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              165 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                April 27, 1982, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

NEARLY 1,000 ARE SEIZED IN A;
JOB SWEEP OF ALIENS

BYLINE: By RONALD SULLIVAN

SECTION: Section A; Page 14, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 937 words


Swooping in as workers began morning shifts, Federal immigration agents
apprehended nearly a thousand illegal aliens yesterday at job sites around the
nation in what the Government said was an effort to recapture higher-paying jobs
for unemployed American citizens.

In New York and New Jersey, Immigration and Naturalization Service agents raided
at least eight companies and arrested about 175 aliens without the blue-lettered
''resident alien'' cards.

In the operation, called Project Jobs, immigration agents seized hundreds of
other people at work sites in Detroit, Chicago, Denver, Dallas, Houston, Los
Angeles, San Francisco, Utica, N.Y., and other cities in sweeps that are
expected to continue through the week. The service said it expected to apprehend
3,000 to 5,000 illegal aliens holding jobs that it says have been taken away
from unemployed citizens and legal aliens.

'Quite a Success'

In Washington, Verne Jervis, a spokesman for the immigration service, said that
scattered reports from the field showed that the first day of the operation was
''quite a success.'' Immigration officials said preliminary reports showed that
268 illegal aliens were arrested in the Fort Worth area, 230 in Houston, 135 in
Denver and 130 in Los Angeles.

Mr. Jervis said the jobs left open by the arrests would be referred to state
employment agencies, veterans groups and labor unions to be filled.

He said one raid at a landscaping and tree surgery company in Houston found
illegal aliens holding jobs paying $4 to $5 an hour and that aliens arrested in
other areas of the nation had jobs paying as much as $11 an hour.

If the arrests made yesterday in New York and New Jersey are any indication,
most of those caught in the sweep will be illegal aliens from Mexico and other
Latin American countries.

Bronx Company Raided

In one raid, about 100 people, virtually all of them Hispanic workers, had just
started the day shift at the G & T Fruit Company at 220 West 230th Street in the
Kingsbridge section of the Bronx yesterday morning. About a dozen immigration
agents carrying search warrants jumped from their unmarked automobiles and ran
into the company's large warehouse. The workers, who were repacking sacks of
potatoes unloaded from nearby boxcars for supermarkets, were lined up and
ordered to produce their resident cards.

''They came in here like Jesse James, scaring people half to death,'' Anthony
Spinale, owner of the company, said as he watched agents take away 22 employees.
Those who did not have the plastic cards were placed in the immigration cars
outside.

The workers who were not arrested stood silently on the warehouse loading dock,
their eyes darting from one agent to another, until Mr. Spinale told them it was
time to go back to work.

''If they are trying to open up high-paying jobs to citizens, then this raid is
a joke,'' said Mr. Spinale, who went on to accuse the Government of using
''Gestapo-like tactics.''

Workers Said to Get Low Wage

''I pay these people the minimum wage of $3.35 an hour for hard, honest work,''
he said, ''and my books are open to prove it.'' Immigration service officials
said that in the past they had often caught illegal aliens working low-skilled
and minimum-wage jobs. In most cases, the officials said, those jobs were simply
filled again by other illegal aliens.

However, William S. Slattery, chief of special investigations in the immigration
service's New York office, said the objective this time was to remove illegal
workers from better-paying jobs that would then be available for unemployed
citizens in the surrounding community. The agency estimates that there are 3
million to 6 million illegal aliens in the nation and that about half of them
hold jobs illegally.

Immigration officials said the principal targets of their nationwide dragnet
were illegal aliens earning at least $4.50 an hour.

'Who Else Would Do This Work?

But Mr. Spinale ridiculed that idea.  ''Who else would do this work?'' he asked,
pointing at workers lifting heavy sacks of potatoes and sorting fruits and
vegetables.  ''No one else, just these people.

When told of Mr. Spinale's charges that low-paid workers were being taken away,
Mr. Slattery said, ''That's bound to happen.'' Mr. Slattery said agents seized
45 illegal aliens at the Alsy Manufacturing Company in Hicksville, L.I.; 23 at
the Plated Plastics Company at 331 Troutman Street in the Bushwick section of
Brooklyn; four at Paramount Fibers, 348 Manita Street, and four at Capital
Caterers on White Plains Road, both in the Bronx.

Mr. Slattery said 32 persons were arrested in Westchester County.  He said all
of those detained were being questioned at the service's ''processing center''
in the old brig at the Brooklyn Navy Yard.

Mr. Slattery said most of those detained would be released if they agreed to
return to their native countries. Otherwise, he said, they would be held for
deportation proceedings.

Those released will be required to sign ''no work'' pledges. Other than the loss
of workers, there are no penalties for companies that hire illegal aliens.

In New Jersey, James Pomeroy, acting director of the immigration service's
district office in Newark, said 44 illegal aliens were apprehended at two
factories, 35 at the Chem Spray Company in Totowa, and nine at Lite Industries
in Paterson.

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); MEXICO (79%); LATIN AMERICA (78%);

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA,
USA (92%); COLORADO, USA (92%);

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (93%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA
(92%); DENVER, CO, USA (92%); UTICA, NY, USA (79%); DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); FORT
WORTH, TX, USA (57%);

COMPANY: FORT WORTH MORTGAGE (55%);   IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE
(58%); IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE (58%);

ORGANIZATION: IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE  (58%); IMMIGRATION &
NATURALIZATION SERVICE (58%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES  UNITED STATES (95%); MEXICO (79%); LATIN AMERICA
(78%);   NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (93%);
CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); COLORADO, USA (92%);   HOUSTON, TX, USA (93%); LOS
ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); DENVER, CO, USA (92%); UTICA,
NY, USA (79%); DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); FORT WORTH, TX, USA (57%);

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; ILLEGAL ALIENS  IMMIGRATION (95%); ILLEGAL
IMMIGRANTS (93%); ARRESTS (89%); SEARCH WARRANTS (78%); IMMIGRATION LAW (78%);
EMPLOYMENT (78%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (73%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); RAILROAD
ROLLING STOCK (60%); VETERANS (50%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (50%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              166 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                April 25, 1982, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

Key West, in Protest On Aliens, 'Secedes'

BYLINE: UPI

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 12, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 175 words

DATELINE: KEY WEST, Fla., April 24


Residents of Key West, angry at the Federal Government for what they called its
cumbersome efforts to control illegal immigration, ''seceded'' from the United
States Friday and briefly established ''The Conch Republic.''

They quickly ended the spoof, but said they wanted to apply for $1 billion in
foreign aid. Residents of the Keys are at odds with the Government over a
roadblock the Border Patrol set up to capture illegal aliens and drug smugglers.
Last weekend, the roadblock backed up traffic for 19 miles, and Key West
officials say it is choking off tourist trade.  The Border Patrol says it is
serving a necessary purpose, and that 25 illegal aliens were intercepted in five
days.

Mayor Dennis Warlow of Key West presided over the mock ceremonies proclaiming
''The Conch Republic.'' He declared war on the United States, fired a ''verbal
shot'' and then surrendered the new republic so that, he said, it would be
eligible for foreign aid.

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%);

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (97%);

CITY: KEY WEST, FL, USA (97%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;KEY WEST (FLA)  UNITED STATES (97%);   FLORIDA, USA (97%);   KEY
WEST, FL, USA (97%);

SUBJECT: ILLEGAL ALIENS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT  ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (94%);
IMMIGRATION (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS
(88%); SMUGGLING (88%); BORDER CONTROL (88%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (73%);

 INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (71%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (54%); TOURISM (53%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              167 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                April 25, 1982, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

CENSUS FINS THAT NEW YORK'S POT IS STILL MELTING

BYLINE: By JOHN HERBERS, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 38, Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1519 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 24


The New York metropolitan area is home to more foreign-born people than to
people born in other parts of the United States, new figures from the 1980
census show.

This finding, according to authorities, reflects both the large increase
nationally in immigration of foreigners during the 1970's and the slowdown in
the migration of Americans from all regions to New York and other Northern
cities for better economic opportunities.

The figures also show the metropolitan area, as defined by the Federal
Government, to have an exceptionally high poverty rate, an educational level
only slightly above the national average, a median family income at about the
national level and an unusually high percentage of whites over 65 years old.

In almost every economic respect, the New York area, with its large populations
of the poor and minorities, ranked considerably below its predominantly white,
middle-class neighbor, the Nassau-Suffolk metropolitan area on Long Island.

Because the boundaries of some metropolitan statistical areas were changed
during the last decade the figures released by the Census Bureau this week could
not be compared immediately as far as New York was concerned with those of the
1970 census and previous decades.  That information will be available later.

Statistically Accurate Sample

The data that were released were a statistically accurate sample of the long
form that went to one in every five households when the census was taken in
April 1980. The sample contained selected characteristics for the nation, the
states and the 38 metropolitan areas with populations of more than one million.

The New York area is defined by the Government as containing New York City,
Westchester and Rockland Counties and Bergen County in New Jersey. In 1970,
Nassau and Suffolk Counties were part of the New York area but were subsequently
broken off to form a separate area, in part because they had developed their own
economy and identity even though they remained in some ways a satellite of New
York City.  Bergen County was added because of its increased economic dependence
on New York.

New York remains by far the largest metropolitan area in the United States, with
a 1980 population of 9,120,346, even though it experienced the greatest
population decline, 9 percent, of any metropolitan area during the decade. The 9
percent decline does not include the loss of Nassau and Suffolk Counties.
Chicago and Los Angeles-Long Beach are the next largest, both with more than
seven million people.

Nassau-Suffolk ranks ninth with 2,605,813.  The new figures show the New York
area to be distinctive in many ways, not only in comparison to Western and
Southern urban centers but also among those in the Northeast as well.

Income
The median family income - the point at which half the families received more
and half less - was $19,794 in the New York area for 1979, the last full year at
the time the census was taken. That was almost the same as the national figure -
$19,908. But the disparity in incomes among racial and ethnic groups was greater
in the New York area. Whites had a median family income of $23,208, blacks
$12,407, Asians $18,024 and Hispanic people, $10,347. Nationally, Asians ranked
ahead of whites. And New York had a considerably higher proportion of people
with incomes in excess of $50,000. Nationally, only 4.6 percent of all
households received that much. In the New York area 6.1 percent - 214,866
households - did.

A household is defined as the people, whether related or not, living in one
housing unit.  The Nassau-Suffolk area, with its relatively low share of poor
and minorities, offered a sharp contrast to its larger neighbor. There, the
median family income was $26,135, exceeded only by the Washington, D.C., area,
which had $27,515. And in Nassau-Suffolk 10 percent of the households had
incomes in excess of $50,000.

Poverty
Nationally, 12.5 percent of the households in 1979 were judged to be below the
poverty level based on cash income. That threshold varies according to the cost
of living in various areas but is what the Government judges to be the amount on
which a family can barely survive.

In the New York area the poverty rate was 17.4 percent. Of the 38 metropolitan
areas, only San Antonio and New Orleans exceeded the New York figure, with 18.3
percent and 18.7 percent respectively.

Nassau-Suffolk, on the other hand, had a poverty rate of 5.5 percent, and other
areas with large minority populations fared better than New York - Atlanta with
11.9 percent and Detroit with 11.4 percent, for example. Both those cities had a
majority black population. The low income for Hispanic people in New York was an
important factor in the high level for the area.

The Foreign Born
During the 1970's, New York's historic role as a melting pot for immigrants from
around the world took on new importance, while the migration of poor Americans
from other regions - a phenomenon that had occurred during most of this century
- virtually came to a halt.  Many people left the area for jobs in the West and
South as the region's manufacturing base declined.

By 1980, the Census Bureau reported, the New York area had 1,898,765 people who
said they were born (as non-Americans) in another country. That was 20.8 per
cent of the population, compared with a national average of 6.2 per cent. Only
the Miami area, with its many refugees from Latin America, and the Los
Angeles-Long Beach area, the melting pot of the West Coast, had higher figures,
with 35 percent and 21.6 percent respectively. These figures do not include
other categories, such as American citizens born abroad.

For the first time, the Census Bureau asked people whether they spoke a language
other than English at home. Nationally, 10 percent reported they did. In the New
York area, 30 percent said they used a language at home other than English.
Spanish was predominant as the other language both nationally and in New York.

When asked whether they were born in a state other than the one in which they
were living, 1,529,776 persons in the New York area said they were, while
5,185,216 said they were born in New York. Thus only 16.7 percent of the
population came from other states, compared with 29 percent nationally. New York
and other Northeastern cities clearly are no longer major economic lures for
Americans from other regions.  That role has passed to cities in the West and
South.

Education
Thirty-one of the 37 other metropolitan areas ranked higher than New York in
education. Nationally, 66.3 percent of people over 25 had completed four years
of high school. In the New York area the percentage was 63.6. The figure for
Nassau-Suffolk was 75.5 percent.  For Minneapolis-St. Paul, it was 80.1 percent;
for Los Angeles-Long Beach, 70.6 percent; for Atlanta, 69.3 percent; for Boston,
76.1 percent, and for Denver, 81.1 percent.

The New York area registered comparatively better for college graduates.
Nationally 16.3 per cent of people over 25 had completed four or more years of
college. In the New York area the percentage was 20.6. That was almost equal to
Nassau-Suffolk, which had 20.8 percent.

Age and Families
Nationally in 1980 there was an average of 2.75 persons per household and 3.27
per family. Both categories have been declining over the past two decades. In
the New York area the size of the average family was only slightly less than the
national figure, or 3.25 persons per family. But the size of the average
household was considerably below the national average, at 2.55, due partly to
the rise of one-parent and single-person households in the area.

And the New York figures in both categories were considerably smaller than in
most other metropolitan areas. Nassau-Suffolk, for example, had an average of
3.17 persons per household and 3.58 persons per family. The New York area's
tendency toward fewer people per housing unit was in part a function of age, of
older people living alone. The median age in the New York area was 33.1,
compared with a national average of 30.

And it is whites who provide a disproportionate share of the aged.  People older
than 65 make up 16.5 per cent of the white population in the New York area, but
only 12.1 per cent of the white population nationally. In the New York area,
people over 65 make up only 7.2 per cent of the black population, 5.7 per cent
of the Asian population and 4.7 per cent of the Hispanic population, figures
that are close to the national average for all three categories. It is largely
the younger white people, authorities say, who have left for better job
opportunities in other regions.

TICKER: NCTY (NASDAQ) (52%);

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (92%);

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%);

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (99%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%);

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%);

COMPANY: NEW YORK RESTAURANT GROUP INC (92%);   US CENSUS BUREAU  (55%); US
CENSUS BUREAU (55%);

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU  (55%); US CENSUS BUREAU (55%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA  UNITED STATES
(99%);   NEW YORK, USA (99%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%);
NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%);

SUBJECT: FOREIGN POPULATION AND FOREIGN DESCENT GROUPS; POPULATION  CENSUS
(90%); CITIES (90%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (89%); FAMILY (89%); HOUSEHOLD
NUMBERS (78%); POPULATION DECLINE (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); US FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT (78%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (75%); IMMIGRATION (73%); POVERTY RATES
(73%); RANKINGS (70%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (70%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: table of median family income, 1979

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              168 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                April 25, 1982, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

MYTHS, HONOR AND MACHISMO AT STAKE IN THE FALKLANDS

BYLINE: By EDWARD SCHUMACHER

SECTION: Section 4; Page 3, Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1425 words

DATELINE: BUENOS AIRES


Spanish conquistadors named this land Argentina, ''land of silver.'' While they
found little treasure, the name somehow remains apt. The society they founded in
the 16th century is still based more on what a leading Argentine sociologist
called ''myths and magic'' than on law and morality. This is central to the
Argentine national character and helps explain why Argentine forces boldly
seized the Falkland Islands from Britain three weeks ago and now are poised to
defend it against a British battle fleet.

Waves of immigration have made Argentines a people mostly of European stock. The
land is fertile, temperate, as big as the United States east of the Mississippi,
but with only 28 million people.  Before World War II, Argentina was by far the
most developed country in Latin America and as industrialized as Canada. Buenos
Aires is a cosmopolitan capital of smartly dressed people with refined tastes in
art, literature and music. Argentines have won four Nobel prizes.

But with these advantages has come a chauvinism notorious throughout Latin
America. Argentines are often condescending and didactic. Brazilians are
referred to as ''monkeys'' and North Americans as ''uncultured.''

Jose Ortega y Gasset, the Spanish philisopher, wrote that ''recognizing there is
something that you do not know is an attitude not not usually found among
Argentines.''

Gabriel Garcia Marquez, the Colombian novelist, is said to have described ego
''as the little Argentine inside each of us.'' In the case of the Falklands, it
is virtually impossible to find an Argentine who concedes even minor validity to
the British claim. This is understandable, given the fact that every national
map shows the islands as Argentine and Argentina's ''right'' to the islands has
been drummed into schoolchildren since the British occupied the Falklands 149
years ago. What is harder to understand is that many Argentines genuinely fail
to see that their use of force provoked the crisis or might actually have been
wrong.

Asked to explain this blind spot, an Argentine psychoanalyst herself failed to
see it. ''It's like lending someone a watch,'' she said. ''It's still yours, and
when you want it, you take it back.'' It appeared not to occur to her that 149
years have passed, a British community of 1,800 people has put down roots on the
islands, the historical claims are debatable and force is no longer an approved
instrument for conducting foreign affairs.

Jose E. Miguens, a leading sociologist who supports Argentina's claim, explained
its actions. ''This is a mythical society and reason is unimportant,'' he said.
''It is an attitude of magic - sovereignty over the islands is ours and so it is
ours.'' The seizure by force, he suggested, was a perfectly natural and
righteous consequence. To Argentines, the islands were not ''invaded'' but
''reconquered.'' Many genuinely seem to blame the British for starting the
trouble by sending a fleet to take the islands back.

The Pull of the Pampas

One irony of the situation is that few Argentines would want to live on the
islands, a desolate and windswept place on the cold fringes of the Antarctic
Ocean. Argentines are not a pioneering people; 40 percent of the population
lives within the confines of Buenos Aires. Vast regions of the outback in the
south, the mountains of the West and the jungles of the north are held in
reserve by owners, but scarcely populated.

Yet land to an Argentine still has a powerful emotional pull.  Although the
conquistadors found no silver, they staked out huge tracts of the empty and
fertile pampas. Almost every Argentine aspires someday to own his ''quinta,''
his small plot of land. In his classic study of the 1930's, ''X-ray of the
Pampa,'' Ezequiel Martinez Estrada could have been referring to the Falklands
when he wrote, ''The old conquistador yet rises in his tomb. He is dead, but
within us looks across his frustrated dreams at this immense and still promising
land, and our eyes moisten with emotion.'' He continued, ''In Europe, to
establish a bond of ownership with the land was to marry into history, to seal a
genealogical link, to enter into the dominion of the past. But in America - in
South America - which has no past and consequently, it is thought, must have a
future, owning land is one part vengeance and another part greed.'' Despite the
vastness of Argentina, the Argentines' interpretation of their history is that
they lost great chunks of territory in the 18th and 19th centuries to their
neighbors, territory which, if they had it today, would make them a world power.

Their neighbors, naturally, hold different interpretations. Three years ago,
Argentina almost went to a war with Chile ago over their conflicting claims to
the Beagle Channel, at the tip of the continent. The Argentine military
continues to prepare for war there even though arbitration by a group of
international jurists 10 years ago and a mediation proposal by Pope John Paul II
five months ago went against Argentina's claim.

Argentina is a country of many lawyers, but not really one of law.  The United
Nations Security Council resolution calling for withdrawal from the Falklands
has been ignored. Mr. Martinez Estrada traces the country's legal tradition to
the conquistadors. They did not come to build a new society, but to exploit.
Laws limited their freedom and so were evaded. ''Argentines are not a moral
people,'' Mr. Miguens, the sociologist, said, ''in the sense that they do not
judge their actions against an unchanging standard.''
Little Regard for Democracy

The most prized value is loyalty to family and friends. In other relations,
expediency is usually followed. Cheating is common in business. A huge black
market exists to move dollars to secret Swiss bank accounts.

Many civilian leaders and ordinary Argentines helped subvert the principle of
democracy, supporting the military overthrow of five governments in the last 30
years. Large parts of the population openly or tacitly supported the
assassinations and ''disappearances'' carried out by the current military
Government to combat terrorists who used similar tactics.

Jorge Luis Borges, the Argentine author, describes his country as a nation
without a national identity. ''We're Europeans'' or ''We're Western Christians''
is a constant refrain in conversations. The upper middle class copies French and
English manners. Working-class Argentines, meanwhile, have built an exaggerated
notion of Argentina's place in the world, a notion that spurs the country to
take on the British and at the same time, conceals a basic sense of national
insecurity, a lack of mature nationhood.

Italians are the largest ethnic group in Argentina and Argentines have inherited
the Italian ambivalence about the need for government. The people swing back and
forth between authoritarianism and anarchy. There are 14 major political parties
today, and many more minor ones. The largest party is the movement that followed
a populist demagogue, Juan Domingo Peron.

Over the last 40 years, power has see-sawed between the military and the
Peronists, a competition that has not helped to move the country forward. After
years of frustrating division, the sudden unity over the Falklands has been a
heady elixir that Argentines are reluctant to give up. ''This is our first
Malvinas,'' said an intellectual, using the Argentine name for the Falklands and
suggesting that the unity over the islands might lead to consensus about
domestic problems, too.

Another reason for Argentines' willingness to take on the British stems from the
Spanish side of their character, a deep sense of honor. Foreign Minister Oscar
Camilion last year and Nicanor Costa Mendez this year bristled at meetings with
Lord Carrington, the British Foreign Secretary forced to resign three weeks ago,
because they felt that he did not not take them seriously. Now the fleet is
bearing down. Honor, backed by a strong sense of machismo, seems not to allow
capitulation. ''The British are treating us like natives,'' Mr. Miguens said.
''Our dignity is up against the wall. We can't back down now.''

TICKER: APAGF (NASDAQ) (90%);

COUNTRY: ARGENTINA (99%); FALKLAND ISLANDS (MALVINAS) (97%); UNITED KINGDOM
(93%); LATIN AMERICA (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); BRAZIL (79%); NORTH AMERICA
(79%);

CITY: BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (92%);

COMPANY: APCO ARGENTINA INC (90%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;ARGENTINA; GREAT BRITAIN; FALKLAND ISLANDS  ARGENTINA (99%);
FALKLAND ISLANDS (MALVINAS) (97%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); LATIN AMERICA (91%);
UNITED STATES (79%); BRAZIL (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%);   BUENOS AIRES,
ARGENTINA (92%);

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND
MILITARY FORCES; MILITARY ACTION; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS  ISLANDS & REEFS
(89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); SOCIOLOGY (78%); IMMIGRATION (75%); NEWS BRIEFS
(74%); AWARDS & PRIZES (72%); NOBEL PRIZES (72%); WORLD WAR II (70%); NOVELS &
SHORT STORIES (67%); WRITERS & WRITING (67%); CHILDREN (50%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: photo of a gaucho herding cattle on Argentine pampas

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              169 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               April 24, 1982, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

U.S. IS REMAINING ADAMANT AS DETAINED HAITIANS PRESS APPEALS FOR ASYLUM

BYLINE: By GREGORY JAYNES, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 6, Column Z; National Desk

LENGTH: 1291 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, April 23


Once in a while a letter of anguish makes its way out of one of the detention
facilities for Haitian refugees, as this one to President Reagan did a few weeks
ago:

''We did not flee our country in search of food and drink, like they say. You
know this as well as we do, and yet you treat us like animals, like old rags
forgotten in some corner. Do you think that in acting that way you dissuade us
from our purpose? Do you think that you are thus morally destroying us? You are
wrong.''

The letter, signed by 38 Haitian women at the Fort Allen detention facility in
Puerto Rico, went on: ''This is a cry of despair, a final call to your
nobleness, to your good judgment, to your title as a great power. We would be
honored by a satisfactory answer from you, an answer to these luckless refugees
who ask only for the charity of liberty.''

This week, at a news conference in Miami, Attorney General William French Smith
gave the answer the Government has been giving and has not changed in the eight
months since the Immigration and Naturalization Service adopted its ''detention
posture'' toward the Haitians. ''There's not a single Haitian who can't walk out
the door and go home,'' the Attorney General said. ''They can leave voluntarily
any time they want to. All they have to do is go home.''

'Go Home and Stand in Line'

''The fact of the matter,'' said Mr. Smith, ''is that an illegal alien can go
home and stand in line with all the other people who want to enter the U.S.
legally.''

The United States is holding about 2,200 Haitians at Federal detention
facilities in five states and Puerto Rico. Most of them have been behind bars or
barbed wire since last summer, when the Reagan Administration answered another
anguished cry, that of the State of Florida, whose officials said it could not
embrace one more refugee. About 125,000 Cubans washed up here in the spring of
1980.  About 40,000 Haitians made it to the beaches in the last decade.

The ''illegal aliens,'' as the Government categorizes them, say that they fled
political repression, but the United States Government holds that they fled
economic deprivation, not a ground for political asylum in this country.

The Government took two actions that have greatly stanched the flow of Haitians
and have also outraged civil libertarians who have succeeded in a court fight in
New York and are in the fourth week of a similar battle over discrimination in a
Federal court here.  Immigration officials have stopped ''sponsoring out'' the
Haitians to families and churches in the region. Before last Aug. 1, the
Haitians had routinely been released in someone's care, pending a hearing to
which few ever came.

Coast Guard on the Watch

The second thing the Government did was place a Coast Guard cutter on patrol in
the Windward Passage, between Haiti and Cuba. Only two Haitian vessels have been
interdicted and only 106 Haitians have been returned to their country by the
Coast Guard, but the presence of the cutter and the word of mouth about long
detentions in this country have profoundly diminished the exodus.

In October 1980, 2,280 Haitians were picked up here. Last October, 306 were
detained. From Jan. 1, through April 23, 1981, 2,036 Haitians were taken into
custody. This year, through today, 78 Haitians have been detained. The numbers
are always lower in winter than in summer, because the winds are wrong and the
sea is boisterous, but the Government views the recent figures as showing that
the deterrent is working.

The remaining question: What to do with the detainees?  Until last September,
immigration officials were holding quick hearings and sending them home. Lawyers
in Miami won a Federal court injunction halting the hearings until a suit in
behalf of the Haitians was resolved. That resolution will come in two weeks from
Federal District Judge Eugene Spellman, who, for the last month, has heard 37
witnesses for the Haitians and half a dozen witnesses for the Government.

Bruce Winick, chief counsel among a battery of lawyers arguing the case for the
Haitians without a fee, says he believes that even if Judge Spellman rules
against letting the refugees go free, as their suit asks, a sound enough record
has been compiled to win the argument on appeal. ''We think we've proved our
case,'' said Steve Forester, another lawyer involved in the suit.

The Government's Position

The Government has contended, according to the testimony of Associate United
States Attorney General Rudolf Guiliani, that the Haitians came here for
''economic betterment.'' Mr. Guiliani has testified that ''the situation of
political repression does not exist, at least in general, in Haiti.''

The plaintiffs contend that the Haitians' requests for political asylum are
legitimate. Stephen Cohen, who was the Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for
Human Rights in the Carter Administration, termed Mr. Giuliani's assertion
''laughable.'' He said, ''It would be like someone in our Government getting up
to say that the Soviet Union is a democracy.''

A Justice Department lawyer, Robert Bombaugh, argued in court: ''We turn a
million Mexicans back at the border every year with no judge, no trial attorney.
We tried, because of the complaints about the special and unique problems of
Haitians, to protect their interests.  Then we are accused of discrimination.''

Pierre Silien, who was brought to court from the Krome Detention Facily 25 miles
west of Miami, where about 600 Haitians are held, answered a question with a
question: ''I'd spend eight months in prison and then go back to Haiti? I'd
rather spend eight more months in jail here.''

In an affidavit, Mr. Silien had said that if he was returned, ''They will beat
me, put me in prison, maybe kill me -they consider me an enemy, a traitor.'' He
said he wanted political asylum ''with all my heart.''

Mayor on Haitians' Side

Mayor Maurice Ferre of Miami testified in favor of freeing the Haitians. ''We
absorbed 125,000 Cubans in two months and many of those were criminals,'' he
said. ''Our criminal record for the Haitians is zip. They are a peaceful
people.''

''Will this encourage five million Haitians to move in?'' the Mayor went on.
''There are 1,000 illegal Mexicans that enter the United States each hour. The
Mexicans are just as poor as the Haitians, but we don't put them in jail. We are
talking about human beings and putting them in a camp for eight months without
explanation.''

Only one session of testimony remains before the case goes to Judge Spellman
next week. It will be an analysis of statistics provided by the Government,
statistics that the Haitians' attorneys say they believe will further prove
discrimination. What the statistics show, according to Mr. Winick, is that
''being a Haitian gets you detained, while being a non-Haitian works the other
way, which is all part of a discrimination suit.''

The Haitians at the Krome facility have been following the case closely.
Thirty-three women have been on a hunger strike for a week, protesting for
freedom. Three are being fed intravenously. Physicians there report that the
long incarceration has created widespread depression in the camp.

Immigration officials continue to tell the Haitians that all they have to do is
say they want to go home and they will be given a free $145 airline ticket to
Port-au-Prince.

COUNTRY: HAITI (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); PUERTO RICO (92%);

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%);

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (94%);

COMPANY: IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE  (55%); IMMIGRATION &
NATURALIZATION SERVICE (55%);

ORGANIZATION: IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE  (55%); IMMIGRATION &
NATURALIZATION SERVICE (55%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; HAITI; MIAMI (FLA); FLORIDA  HAITI (99%); UNITED
STATES (94%); PUERTO RICO (92%);   FLORIDA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%);
MIAMI, FL, USA (94%);

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; REFUGEES AND EXPATRIATES; PRISONS AND
PRISONERS  IMMIGRATION (90%); REFUGEES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL
ASYLUM (89%); IMMIGRATION LAW (87%); IMMIGRANT DETENTION CENTERS (78%); ILLEGAL
IMMIGRANTS (78%); LAWYERS (73%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (72%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS
(72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (68%); PRESS
CONFERENCES (67%); JAIL SENTENCING (66%); BEACHES (60%);

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (93%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: Photo of a refugee

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              170 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               April 24, 1982, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

IMMIGRATION OFFFICIALS TO VISIT JOB SITES TO CHECK ON ALIENS

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 10, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 639 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 23


Immigration officials said today that investigators would visit 200 to 300 job
sites throughout the country next week in an effort to catch illegal aliens who
hold better-paying jobs.

Joseph F. Salgado, Associate Commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization
Service, said in an interview that he was announcing the operation in part to
counter reports that Federal agents would conduct ''raids'' or ''sweeps'' in as
many as 50 cities throughout the country.

Mr. Salgado added that the Government would focus on 200 to 300 places of
employment in ''no more than 10'' target cities. He confirmed that Los Angeles,
San Francisco and Dallas were among those cities, but he would not name the
others.

He said that the operation, if successful, could lead to the apprehension of
3,000 to 5,000 aliens, opening jobs for citizens and legal aliens in
construction and computer-related industries where illegal aliens often earned
$7 to $9 an hour, substantially more than the minimum hourly wage of $3.35.

Rights to Be Respected

Rumors about the enforcement action have been circulating for several weeks in
Hispanic neighborhoods and among immigration lawyers and civil liberty groups.
In the last three days, Mr. Selgado has briefed journalists, Hispanic groups and
members of Congress on the Government's plans, emphasizing that investigators
would respect the aliens' rights.

''We didn't want to seem to focus on any one ethnic group, locality or region,''
said Mr. Salgado, who is in charge of enforcement for the immigration agency.

Hispanic organizations protested the planned operation, saying it would spread
fear through Hispanic communities. Antonia Hernandez of the Mexican American
Legal Defense and Educational Fund said, ''We don't question their authority to
do this; we do question the means they are using.''

Arnoldo S. Torres, executive director of the League of United Latin American
Citizens, said that the operation would spread a false impression that
undocumented workers were responsible for the nation's high unemployment rate.
In addition, he said, they would stir up animosity toward Spanish-speaking
immigrants, whether legal or illegal.

Differs From Previous Actions

The planned operation, known as Project Jobs, differs from previous enforcement
actions in its emphasis on removing aliens from better-paying jobs and in its
effort to involve the Labor Department and state employment agencies.

In the past, immigration officials said, they often caught illegal aliens
performing low-skilled manual labor and agricultural jobs that citizens did not
want. The officials also said there was often no effort to fill the vacated jobs
with citizens or legal aliens, so the people caught were merely replaced by
other illegal aliens. In Project Jobs, Mr. Salgado said, the Government is
trying to line up unemployed citizens to replace illegal aliens.

Mr. Salgado said that 400 immigration service employees, including 80 Border
Patrol officers and 300 investigators, would take part in the enforcement effort
starting Monday.

In some cases, he said, job sites would be searched and employees questioned
with the consent of the employers. In about 40 percent of the cases, he added,
the Government has obtained search warrants.

The Federal authorities may take action to deport aliens who entered the Unites
States without the proper documents, who stayed beyond the time fixed by the
Government or who took employment without proper authorization. However, the
aliens have extensive rights of appeal within the Department of Justice and in
Federal courts.

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (79%);

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%);

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%);

COMPANY: IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE  (58%); IMMIGRATION &
NATURALIZATION SERVICE (58%);

ORGANIZATION: IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE  (58%); IMMIGRATION &
NATURALIZATION SERVICE (58%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES  UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (79%);
CALIFORNIA, USA (79%);   LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%);

SUBJECT: ILLEGAL ALIENS; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; LABOR  IMMIGRATION (94%);
ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (92%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (89%);
SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); ETHNIC GROUPS (79%); FOREIGN LABOR (79%); US
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (79%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (79%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%);
LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); EMPLOYMENT (78%); RECRUITMENT
& HIRING (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); INTERVIEWS
(77%); FARM LABOR (74%); LAWYERS (74%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (74%);
WAGES & SALARIES (73%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (73%); LEGISLATORS (73%); MINIMUM
WAGE (73%); BORDER CONTROL (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (72%); DEMOGRAPHIC
GROUPS (66%); EXECUTIVES (64%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (62%); ETHNICITY (50%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              171 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                April 19, 1982, Monday, Late City Final Edition

Release the Haitians

SECTION: Section A; Page 20, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 707 words


For months, in some cases a full year, the United States has ''detained''
undocumented Haitian migrants. Imprisoned is more like it; some are in fact
housed in prison cells. But unlike prisoners, the Haitians do not know when
their sentences will end. Once, this detention policy was justifiable. Now,
after so many months, it has started to smell: like the detention of
Japanese-Americans in World War II; like racism; like cruelty.

A former Immigration official reports that last Christmas, a Miami radio station
sent a black Santa to give presents to the Haitian children held behind the
razor wire of the Krome South detention center. He was forbidden to see them and
had to leave the presents in a parking lot.

Another official tells of a Haitian man in the adjacent Krome North camp who was
transferred to a new camp so quickly that he was not allowed to go to the
bathroom to get his false teeth; six months later, his dentures still had not
arrived.

Other observers tell of detainees at Krome and a dozen other locations who have
become psychotic because of ''the awful boredom.'' Husbands are separated from
wives, children from families. Some Haitians have been subjected to indignities,
others to physical mistreatment.

Why? What have these 2,200 pitiful people done to deserve such punishment? Their
offense is that, desperate to escape poverty or persecution, they have tried to
enter the United States. After a year of imprisonment, and with no end in sight,
conscience calls out for relief.

Originally, there was a logic to detention, a logic we were willing to support.
The United States needs to get control of its borders.  Illegal gate-crashers,
however pitiful, should not be allowed to displace legal immigrants who have
waited their turn, often for years. Detaining Haitians pending hearings may
discourage other gatecrashers. But because of a legal logjam, the hearings have
been put off endlessly and detention has turned into indefinite im-prisonment.
The result has been to pile injustice on inequity on inefficiency.

Start with the inefficiency. Hundreds of Border Patrol officers have been
diverted to staff the detention camps. The cost comes out to $22,000 a year for
guarding each Haitian - and that ignores the paradoxical cost in border
enforcement. Apprehensions of illegal aliens have dropped from 1.2 million to
about 750,000 in the last fiscal year.

The inequity relates to other nationalities. Hundreds of thousands of other
illegal entrants are apprehended annually, but only a handful are detained.
Virtually every one of the undocumented Haitians, all black, are detained.

As for the injustice, the Administration is belatedly providing language and
other training, and Attorney General Smith deserves applause for persuading 250
Florida lawyers to volunteer to tackle the backlog of cases. But while the
conditions of detention are improving, the duration of detention is not; the
months pass.

Where can the Haitians turn? Congress could pass an emergency law to unclog the
sclerotic hearing process. But so far it sees only abstract injustice; it is
considering legislation in so deliberate a manner that no relief seems likely
for months. The courts have been receptive. Federal District Judge Robert Carter
last week ordered the release of 53 Haitians being held in Brooklyn. But appeals
in this, and a similar case pending in Florida, will drag on for more months.

There remains one place to turn: Attorney General Smith. He has discretionary
authority to ''parole'' the Haitians into the custody of responsible
organizations pending their hearings. The time has come for him to use it.

To release them may send a signal encouraging more migration. If so, let that
goad Congress to act more promptly. Not to release them etches an ever deeper
stain into the American conscience. ''After 10 months of unlawful confinement in
a harsh environment,'' Judge Carter ruled, ''justice demands swift remedial
action.'' Head and heart, he is right. Let them go.

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); HAITI (95%);

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%);

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (79%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; HAITI  UNITED STATES (97%); HAITI (95%);   FLORIDA,
USA (79%);   MIAMI, FL, USA (79%);

SUBJECT: REFUGEES AND EXPATRIATES; PRISONS AND PRISONERS; IMMIGRATION AND
EMIGRATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION  PRISONS (90%); IMMIGRATION (90%); EDITORIALS &
OPINIONS (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (90%); IMMIGRANT DETENTION CENTERS (89%);
TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (89%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (89%); IMMIGRATION LAW
(89%); BORDER CONTROL (86%); DISPLACED PERSONS (78%); SENTENCING (78%); LAWYERS
(78%); REFUGEES (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); FAMILY (75%); CHRISTMAS (75%);
SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (75%); ASIAN AMERICANS (71%); RACE & RACISM (71%);
JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (70%); LEGISLATION (67%); WORLD WAR II (56%); PARKING SPACES
& FACILITIES (54%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              172 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                April 13, 1982, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

INVITATION TO GREATER ILLEGAL IMMIGRATION

SECTION: Section A; Page 26, Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 401 words


To the Editor:

As president of the American Immigration Lawyers Association, I would like to
respond to your editorial on the proposed Immigration Reform and Control Act of
1982, introduced into Congress on March 17. v.e commend Senator Alan Simpson and
Representative Romano Mazzoli for their courage in confronting almost unsolvable
immigration issues but hope that Congress will seriously consider the
consequences of this legislation before adopting it.

After initial review, we have two fundamental reservations:

* The proposed sanctions on U.S. employers and the national identity card
requirement would attempt to control illegal immigration by adding a complex law
to enforce at a time when Congress is unwilling to give the U.S. Immigration and
Naturalization Service enough money to enforce existing laws.

One alternative would be to increase fees for services and fines for violations,
which would more than offset additional enforcement costs. Still, considering
the enormous administrative costs and potential abuse of sanctions and an
identification card, we urge that less drastic alternatives be tried first.

* We are distressed that the proposed legislation attempts to curb illegal
immigration by imposing unnecessary limitations on lawful immigration. While the
bill grants lawful status to those who have entered and have remained in the
U.S. illegally, no special quota provision is made for many qualified persons
who have waited years to immigrate lawfully.

The proposed legislation restricts the present provisions for legal immigration
based on family ties and shortages of skilled U.S.  workers. Skilled workers may
no longer be able to immigrate on the strength of U.S. Labor Department
certification that qualified and willing U.S. workers are unavailable for a
particular position.

All foreign students who are graduated from U.S. colleges would be required to
return to their home country for at least two years, regardless of immediate
needs of U.S. industry for skilled professionals in certain fields.

In short, this bill may cause more illegal immigration by unfairly restricting
legal immigration.  CHARLES C. FOSTER Houston, March 31, 1982

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%);

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (58%);

COMPANY: AMERICAN IMMIGRATION LAWYERS ASSOCIATION (91%);

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN IMMIGRATION LAWYERS ASSOCIATION (91%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES  UNITED STATES (95%);   HOUSTON, TX, USA (58%);

SUBJECT: LAW AND LEGISLATION; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; ILLEGAL ALIENS
IMMIGRATION (94%); IMMIGRATION LAW (93%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (91%); LEGISLATION
(91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES

 (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); NATIONAL IDENTITY CARDS (78%); FINES &
PENALTIES (75%); LABOR SHORTAGES (70%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (70%); FACTORY WORKERS

 (69%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (63%); FOREIGN STUDENTS (63%); EDITORIALS &
OPINIONS (59%);

PERSON: ALAN K SIMPSON  (58%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              173 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                April 11, 1982, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

Around the World;
Sikh Separatist Is Barred From Visiting India

BYLINE: Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 5, Column 6; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 97 words

DATELINE: NEW DELHI, April 10


Indian immigration officials refused today to let G.S. Dhillon, a Sikh
separatist leader and United States citizen, enter the country. Mr. Dhillon, who
had been traveling to a world Sikh conference in the northern state of Punjab,
was put on a flight to Hong Kong.

Mr. Dhillon argued with Indian officials at the airport here before he was
escorted back to the Pan American World Airways plane on which he had traveled
to India.

A spokesman for the deported leader later criticized the action as
''interference in Sikh religious affairs.''

TICKER: PN (NYSE) (58%);

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); SIC4512 AIR
TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%);

COUNTRY: INDIA (96%); HONG KONG (92%);

STATE: NORTH INDIA (92%); PUNJAB, INDIA (74%);

CITY: NEW DELHI, INDIA (59%);

COMPANY: PAN AM CLIPPER CONNECTION  (58%); PAN AM CLIPPER CONNECTION (58%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;INDIA  INDIA (96%); HONG KONG (92%);   NORTH INDIA (92%); PUNJAB,
INDIA (74%);   NEW DELHI, INDIA (59%);

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; RELIGION AND CHURCHES  IMMIGRATION (92%);
SEPARATISM & SECESSION (91%); SIKHS & SIKHISM (91%); AIRPORTS (87%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              174 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               April 7, 1982, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

PROMINENT IMMIGRANTS HONORED AT A LUNCHEON

BYLINE: By LESLIE BENNETTS

SECTION: Section B; Page 2, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 552 words


The 37 distinguished immigrants had all made it to the United States from such
countries as the Soviet Union, Cambodia and Argentina, but more than one-third
did not manage to get to the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel for lunch yesterday.

Nevertheless, snow and canceled flights notwithstanding, two dozen prominent
Americans did show up to be honored by the Citizens Committee for Immigration
Reform. Their fields of achievement were diverse, ranging from science to music
to politics to finance, but the honorees all shared the experience of having
immigrated to America.

Among those honored were Felix G. Rohatyn, the Vienna-born investment banker;
Arthur E. Burns, who was born in Austria and is now Ambassador to Germany;
Pamela Harriman, a native of Britain and the wife of former Gov. W. Averell
Harriman; I. M. Pei, the architect, who was born in China; Viveca Lindfors, the
actress, who was born in Sweden, and Wassily Leontief, the Nobel Prize-winning
economist, who was born in the Soviet Union.

Several Guests Stranded

Those stranded in various airports included the keynote speaker, the Rev.
Theodore M. Hesburgh, president of the University of Notre Dame, who never made
it out of Chicago; W. Michael Blumenthal, a former Secretary of the Treasury,
who was in Detroit, and Diego Asencio, Assistant Secretary of State for Consular
Affairs, who was still in Washington.

Those in attendance got to hear Father Hesburgh's speech anyway, as delivered by
Dr. Charles Keely of the Population Council.  ''Just look at this room today,
and it is obvious what the benefits of immigration are,'' said Dr. Keely.
''Without immigration, their contributions might have been lost to us. The
lesson is clear: Far from worrying about the short-term cost of permitting legal
immigrants and refugees to come here, we should rather be worrying about the
long-term costs to United States society of a restrictionist immigration
policy.''

Several of the honorees spoke, and all expressed their gratitude to the country
that had adopted them.

Opportunity for Newcomers

''For millions of people, and for me, coming to America to live has brought a
kind of second birth into a land of hope, opportunity and promise,'' said Mrs.
Harriman. ''It is terribly important for our own inner health as a country that
we continue to offer newcomers that opportunity.''

The Citizens Committee was formed a year ago to promote ''a rational, just,
race-free immigration policy,'' explained Nina Solarz, its executive director
and the wife of Representative Stephen J. Solarz.

There was much talk of freedom, and the almost 200 guests rose to sing ''America
the Beautiful'' to music provided on a Roneat Ek, a Cambodian percussion
instrument, by Chinary Ung, a Cambodian musician who is now a professor of music
at Connecticut College. But one speaker sounded a darker note.

''What haunts any refugee who came to this country in the last 50 years is the
notion that if this country loses its confidence and soul, there is probably no
other country in the world worth immigrating to,'' Mr. Rohatyn said.

TICKER: APAGF (NASDAQ) (58%);

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); GERMANY (79%); AUSTRIA (79%); CHINA (79%); SWEDEN
(71%); CENTRAL EUROPE (57%);

CITY: VIENNA, AUSTRIA (79%);

COMPANY: ASTORIA HOTEL (58%); APCO ARGENTINA INC (58%);   UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE
DAME  (55%); UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME (55%); POPULATION COUNCIL  (54%);
POPULATION COUNCIL (54%);

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME  (55%); UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME (55%);
POPULATION COUNCIL  (54%); POPULATION COUNCIL (54%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES  UNITED STATES (98%); GERMANY (79%); AUSTRIA (79%);
CHINA (79%); SWEDEN (71%); CENTRAL EUROPE (57%);   VIENNA, AUSTRIA (79%);

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; FOREIGN POPULATION AND FOREIGN DESCENT
GROUPS; REFUGEES AND EXPATRIATES; CONVENTIONS AND CONFERENCES  IMMIGRATION
(92%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); PUBLIC
POLICY (89%); MUSIC (89%); IMMIGRATION LAW (89%); REFUGEES (78%); EXECUTIVES
(77%); POLITICS (76%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (76%); AWARDS & PRIZES (75%);
DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (74%); NOBEL PRIZES (73%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (71%);
PERCUSSION INSTRUMENTS (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (71%);
COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (66%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (66%); TREASURY
DEPARTMENTS (66%);

PERSON: WASSILY W LEONTIEF  (56%); PAMELA HARRIMAN  (56%); WILLIAM AVERELL
HARRIMAN  (56%); IEOH MING 'I M' PEI  (56%); W MICHAEL BLUMENTHAL  (55%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: photo of Lain Sam

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              175 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                April 6, 1982, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

AROUND THE NATION;
Plane Hijacked to Cuba Returns Safely to Miami

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 16, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 185 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, April 5


A Delta Air Lines jet returned here safely today after being forced to Havana by
three men who doused the plane and a stewardess with gasoline.

The Federal Bureau of Investigation said the three were taken into custody by
Cuban immigration authorities. Passengers said that the hijackers, a middle-aged
man and two young men who called him ''Father,'' spoke Spanish and threatened to
set the plane on fire. The reason, one of them told a passenger, was that he did
not like the United States, the F.B.I. said.

None of the seven crew members or 93 other passengers were injured, said a
bureau spokesman, Welton Merry.  Flight 591 left Chicago at 10 P.M. Sunday and
was hijacked at 12:15 A.M. over La Belle, Fla., 22 minutes before it was due to
land in Miami, a Delta spokesman said. It landed at Jose Marti International
Airport in Havana at 1:09 A.M. and returned to Miami at 3:55 A.M.

The F.B.I. said the men were believed to have taken the gasoline aboard in jugs
in carry-on luggage.

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (85%);

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (85%);

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); CUBA (90%);

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (91%);

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (91%);

COMPANY: DELTA AIR LINES INC  (85%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (85%);   FEDERAL BUREAU
OF INVESTIGATION  (93%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (93%);

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION  (93%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF
INVESTIGATION (93%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;FLORIDA  UNITED STATES (91%); CUBA (90%);   FLORIDA, USA (91%);
MIAMI, FL, USA (91%);

SUBJECT: HIJACKING; AIRPLANES  HIJACKING (91%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); AIRLINES
(90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); AIRPORTS (78%); IMMIGRATION (72%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              176 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 April 5, 1982, Monday, Late City Final Edition

IN BRITAIN, THE SPIRIT OF COLONIALISM LINGERS

SECTION: Section A; Page 22, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 438 words


To the Editor:

Your March 23 news story ''Britons Renew Debate on Race Problems'' must not pass
without comment. Aside from the immoral and inflammatory aspects of Scotland
Yard's insensitivity in releasing a racial breakdown of crime statistics, there
remains the more sinister theme expressed in the excerpts from an editorial in
The Daily Telegraph that must be challenged.

he fallacious reasoning behind the idea that Great Britain had somehow erred in
its judgment to allow non-white immigration is not only racist, it is also
difficult to substantiate. To believe that blacks and Asians are responsible for
''polluting'' the purity of white British society only demonstrates the
society's failure to successfully assimilate these people.

It is not a question of their ''not sharing similar values or respect,'' as the
editors of The Daily Telegraph would like to believe, but rather it is an
indication that the essential elements of British colonialism, subjugation and
exploitation, have not ceased with the dissolution of the Empire.

Facing a bleak existence in their homelands, many of these immigrants flocked to
Britain for much the same reasons as those who came to the United States in the
late 19th and early 20th centuries.  Unfortunately, the reality that greeted
them was not a pleasant one.

Quite simply, most non-whites in Britain today are faced with a choice between
governmental relief or taking one of those positions usually reserved for them,
such as cleaning public lavatories in an underground station. And even these
positions are scarce.

As the history of our own country clearly demonstrates, a high unemployment
concentration in an urban area will also result in a corresponding rate of
crime. But such crime is usually directed against those living in that
community. One need only examine the plight of minorities in places like Leeds
or Birmingham to see that the victims of non-white crime in Britain today are
the non-whites themselves.

Sadly, Britain is simply suffering what all colonial powers have suffered, the
payment for the sins of its past. If one studies the plight of minority groups
in this country, the scenario is much the same.  ANTHONY D. CAVALUZZI Glens
Falls, N.Y., March 24, 1982 The writer, assistant professor of English at
Adirondack Community College, has studied and taught in Great Britain.

COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (98%); SCOTLAND (90%); UNITED STATES (79%);

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%);

CITY: BIRMINGHAM, ENGLAND (77%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;GREAT BRITAIN  UNITED KINGDOM (98%); SCOTLAND (90%); UNITED STATES
(79%);   NEW YORK, USA (79%);   BIRMINGHAM, ENGLAND (77%);

SUBJECT: RACIAL RELATIONS; BLACKS (NON-US)  LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); POLICE
FORCES (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); CRIME RATES (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS
(74%); STATISTICS (72%); CRIME STATISTICS (72%); IMMIGRATION (70%); COLLEGE &
UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (63%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (62%);

 COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (60%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              177 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 April 2, 1982, Friday, Late City Final Edition

RACE FOR GOVERNOR OF HAWAII THREATENS DEMOCRATS

BYLINE: By WALLACE TURNER, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 17, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 947 words

DATELINE: HONOLULU, April 1


The power of the Democratic coalition that has ruled Hawaii since 1963 appears
to be seriously threatened this year by a three-way battle for the governorship.

The three-way contest reflects factionalism within the Democratic Party. Also,
the heavy immigration here in recent years has been dominated by voters who tend
to be Republican.

Political life is different in the land of sun-baked beaches, cane fields and
swaying palms. Most people who move from state to state on the mainland tend to
be job hunters who would be likely to vote Democratic, but new arrivals in
Hawaii tend to be upper-income whites from the mainland who vote Republican.

Important mainland political issues sometimes have reverse effects here, 2,400
miles from San Francisco. For example, President Reagan's big military budget
will be an asset to the Republican nominee for Governor of Hawaii, where the
military provides $1 billion in state income.

Contrasts With Mainland

Also, the February unemployment rate was 5.5 percent in Hawaii, as against 8.8
percent nationally. While sugar and pineapple, the big agricultural crops,
continue their long-time downward cycle, tourism continues to provide thousands
of low-paying jobs for the unskilled members of this state's work force.

Gov. George Ariyoshi, the first American of Japanese ancestry to be elected
Governor of any state, is expected to be the Democratic nominee for re-election
to what would be his third term.

As the inheritor of the mantle of the late John A. Burns, who organized the
successful Democratic coalition in the territorial days 30 years ago, Mr.
Ariyoshi, 56 years old, leads an organization that may be losing ground because
of immigration from the mainland.  Both Gerald R. Ford in 1976 and Ronald Reagan
in 1980 came close to carrying Hawaii, although both ignored the state in their
Presidential campaigns because of its small electoral vote and its strong
Democratic Party tradition.

Frank F. Fasi, 61, a three-term Mayor of Honolulu who was defeated two years ago
by the incumbent, Eileen Anderson, an Ariyoshi political protegee, intends to
run for governor as an independent candidate although he has been a Democrat
throughout his previous political career.

That strategy will keep Mr. Fasi out of the Democratic primary on Sept. 18,
where he would spend a lot of money, and where he lost to Mr. Ariyoshi in 1974
and 1978.

Likely Republican Candidate

State Senator D.G. Anderson, 52, is expected to be the Republican nominee for
Governor. He has been in the Hawaii Legislature from Honolulu districts for 16
years and was defeated twice for mayor of Honolulu by Mr. Fasi. He owns
businesses including a fashionable restaurant and a camera store.

Filing will close in August and there is no indication of serious opposition for
either the Governor or Senator Anderson.  Before this, Republicans have done
badly in statewide campaigns in Hawaii. Senator Anderson agreed that the
Republican Party's image here has been that it primarily represented business
interests and the ''Haoles,'' the Hawaiian word for Caucasians.

''We've always been described by the Democrats as the Haole party, and to a
large part that has been true,'' said Senator Anderson in an interview in his
Capitol office overlooking the grounds of Iolani Palace, where the Hawaiian
monarchs ruled until 1893.

''But if you look at the changing Hawaii, that's what it's changing to,'' he
said, referring to the upward surge of Caucasian population here.

State statisticians said today that as Hawaii's population grew from 499,769 in
1950 to 964,691 in 1980, the Caucasian population grew from 22.9 percent to 33
percent of the total. From 1970 to 1980, they added, Caucasians increased from
228,913 to 318,770 in Hawaii.

Wide Mixture of Ancestry

A six-footer, with the dark skin of his Hawaiian and Portuguese ancestors, Mr.
Anderson also is a mixture of Norwegian, English, Scottish and Irish, he said.
Governor Ariyoshi, who also was born here, is the son of Japanese immigrants.
Former Mayor Fasi was born in Connecticut and is of Italian descent.

A population study published recently by the Hawaii Department of Planning and
Economic Development put the state's household population at 930,271. The study
found the state's racial composition to be 26.3 percent Caucasian, 23.3 percent
Japanese American, 11.2 percent Filipino, 18.9 percent Hawaiian and
part-Hawaiian, 5.1 percent Chinese and the remainder Korean, black, Puerto
Rican, Samoan and other groups.

Each of the three candidates has hired a Mainland consultant.  Former Mayor Fasi
has hired Joseph R. Cerrell of Los Angeles. Mr.  Fasi said he wanted to have at
least $1 million for the campaign.

As in earlier years, Governor Ariyoshi will use Joe Napolitan of Springfield,
Mass. The Governor reported early this year that he had more than $1 million in
hand. He hopes to raise more.

Senator Anderson said he hoped to have $1.2 million to spend. He has hired
Stuart Spencer, of Los Angeles.  Thus $3 million to $4 million will be raised
and spent in the gubernatorial campaign this year. When asked where it would
come from, Mr. Fasi replied:

''Well, we get it from the same place that every politician gets money from -
those who have done, are doing or hope to do business with government. Those are
the facts of life. I wish the system could be changed. Show me how.''

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%);

STATE: HAWAII, USA (94%);

CITY: HONOLULU, HI, USA (94%);

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC PARTY

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;HAWAII  UNITED STATES (94%);   HAWAII, USA (94%);   HONOLULU, HI,
USA (94%);

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; GOVERNORS (US); ELECTIONS  GOVERNORS (92%);
POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%);
POLITICS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); VOTERS & VOTING
(89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); CAMPAIGNS &
ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATORS (78%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (78%); PLATFORMS &
ISSUES (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); US
PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); SUGAR FARMING (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%);
EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (75%); MAYORS (75%); THIS DAY IN HISTORY (74%); BUDGETS (74%);

 US PRESIDENTS (74%); DEFENSE SPENDING (73%); LABOR FORCE (72%); IMMIGRATION
(72%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (70%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (70%); RESTAURANTS (60%);
CAMERA & PHOTOGRAPHIC SUPPLIES STORES (50%);

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (83%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: photo of Frank F. Fasi photo of Gov. George Ariyoshi

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              178 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                March 30, 1982, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

ILLEGAL-ENTRY CURBS THAT HURT CITIZENS

SECTION: Section A; Page 18, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 390 words


To the Editor:

We are disappointed that you endorse employer sanctions as a means of
''controlling our border'' (editorial March 18). In all likelihood, such
sanctions and a worker identification system, proposed last week in a bipartisan
immigration bill, will not decrease undocumented immigration and will lead to an
increase in discrimination against Hispanic-Americans.

At first blush, a law that punishes employers for hiring undocumented aliens
sounds like a reasonable way to curb illegal immigration. If employers won't
hire aliens, aliens won't come here anymore. But it hasn't worked that way in
the approximately 16 states which have employer-sanction laws, and it won't work
that way if it become Federal law.

The beleaguered Immigration and Naturalization Service will have the
responsibility to enforce the law, but unless its resources are increased
dramatically, the agency simply won't be able to - with or without a new
identification system.

The (Simpson-Mazzoli) bill would require the development of a new ID system
within three years, the specifics of which will be worked out by a special
commission. That will probably mean an expansion of the largely thriving black
market in forged documents. Someone who wants a United States birth certificate
badly enough - because it will enable him to get the document that will enable
him to get a job - will find a way to get one.

While the fine points of our new identification system are being ironed out,
Hispanic-American job applicants will bear the brunt of the employer sanctions
law.

We will have the burden of proving that we are American citizens when we apply
for jobs, and if an employer isn't satisfied with the ''proof'' we provide - or
if he just plain doesn't want to hire someone Hispanic - he can turn us away and
throw up the shield of employer sanctions as his excuse.

A government that proposes employer sanctions looks like a government that is
serious about ''controlling'' its borders. But there is little reason to think
that a new law will change an old, tacitly accepted policy: For the most part,
United States officials ignore aliens who are here illegally because their labor
supports so many of our industries.
ANTONIA HERNANDEZ, Associate Counsel, Mexican American Legal Defense and
Education Fund, Washington, March 19, 1982

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%);

COMPANY: IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE  (56%); IMMIGRATION &
NATURALIZATION SERVICE (56%);

ORGANIZATION: IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE  (56%); IMMIGRATION &
NATURALIZATION SERVICE (56%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES  UNITED STATES (97%);

SUBJECT: ILLEGAL ALIENS; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION; LABOR

 IMMIGRATION (93%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%);
LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%);
LEGISLATION (89%); BORDER CONTROL (89%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (78%); RECRUITMENT &
HIRING (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); UNOFFICIAL
ECONOMY (72%); COUNTERFEITING (71%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              179 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                March 23, 1982, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

PRIEST FIGHTS ON BEHALF OF HALF-AMERICAN CHILDREN

BYLINE: By BERNARD WEINRAUB, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 21, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 841 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 22


They are called the ''dust of life'' children, half-American, half-Asian boys
and girls born of American servicemen.

''These are our children,'' said the Rev. Alfred Keane, a Roman Catholic priest
who has worked with half-American children in Korea for 24 years. ''They endure
scorn and ridicule because they look American, and our legislators here in
Washington have now chosen to ignore their pain.''

What has stirred the anger of Father Keane and others is a new immigration bill,
sponsored by Senator Alan K. Simpson, Republican of Wyoming, and Representative
Romano L. Mazzoli, Democrat of Kentucky, that places sharp restrictions on the
entry of these children into the United States.

''The bill totally misses the point that these are American children,'' said
Representative Stewart B. McKinney, a Connecticut Republican who has sponsored
his own measure. It would allow substantial numbers of children of American
servicemen to receive priority status in seeking permanent immigrant visas.

Immigration Limited to 2,000

The Simpson-Mazzoli bill, which has been widely praised for the way it seeks to
limit large-scale illegal immigration, deals only briefly with half-American, or
Amerasian, children.

It says that, over the next five years, a total of 2,000 young people a year,
from the age of 14 through 21, may be admitted to the United States for
adoption. They must prove that they were fathered by a serviceman in Korea,
Vietnam, Cambodia or Laos, that they are subject to significant discrimination
and that they are orphans.

Under the current Immigration and Naturalization Act, Amerasian children are
given ''nonpreferential'' status, making it nearly impossible for them to be
admitted to the United States. In recent years, only a handful of such children
have entered the country.

Aides to Mr. Mazzoli and Mr. Simpson indicated that there was some disagreement
about how to deal with the Amer-a@sian issue. Senator Simpson wanted nothing in
the bill about it, they said, while Mr.  Mazzoli sought to address the problem
in a limited way.

The aides also said there were concerns about opening the floodgates to the
children. Estimates vary, but there may be as many as 80,000 Amerasian children
in Korea and Southeast Asia, including 25,000 in Vietnam.

Reasonable Age Limit Seen

Although Father Keane and Mr. McKinney say that the measure leaves an increasing
number of Amerasians over 21 with scant hope of emigrating to the United States,
Congressional aides who helped write the bill said that 21 seemed to be a
reasonable age limit.

Critics of the Simpson-Mazzoli bill also said it was unlikely that large numbers
of teen-agers would be adopted by American parents, as the bill stipulates. But
Congressional aides said experience indicated that adoption would be a
relatively minor problem.

''Frankly, we felt that the McKinney bill was too broad and too open-ended,'' an
aide to Mr. Mazzoli said.  The bill sponsored by Mr. McKinney, which has 165
co-sponsors in the House, would give the abandoned children a visa preference as
the offspring of American citizens. Moreover, Mr. McKinney says the bill would
not place the children on the welfare rolls because it requires that a sponsor
be legally and financially responsible for five years.

A similar measure has been sponsored in the Senate by Senator Jeremiah A.
Denton, an Alabama Republican and former Navy pilot who spent more than seven
years as a prisoner of war in North Vietnam.

Father Keane, a Boston-born Maryknoll priest who now spends most of his time on
Capitol Hill seeking support for the McKinney and Denton measures, said that
Amerasian children were shunned, ignored, not allowed education benefits and
treated as nonpersons in such countries as Korea.

''These are our own flesh and blood,'' he said. ''I don't think you can hear the
stories and see the pictures and not become involved.'' Father Keane noted that
France, after withdrawing its troops from Indochina in 1954, opened its doors to
virtually any child of French and Indochinese parents born during the war, and
financially supported up to the age of 18 those who remained with their mothers.

Many Amerasian children had fathers who had long relationships with the mothers,
the priest said, and they often carried pictures of their fathers.

''Asking these children to actually prove that they're objects of
discrimination, as the immigration bill says, is ridiculous,'' he said. ''You
think a country like Vietnam will let them out if they have to prove
discrimination?''

Mr. McKinney said he would seek to amend the immigration bill and use every
parliamentary possibility to give Amerasian children priority as immigrants and
allow them to enter in far higher numbers than allowed by the Simpson-Mazzoli
bill.

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); NORTHERN ASIA (93%); VIET NAM (92%); LAO PEOPLE'S
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); ASIA (79%); CAMBODIA (79%);

 SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (73%);

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; SOUTH KOREA  UNITED STATES (99%); NORTHERN ASIA
(93%); VIET NAM (92%); LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC
OF (79%); ASIA (79%); CAMBODIA (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (73%);   CONNECTICUT,
USA (79%);

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION; FOREIGN POPULATION AND
FOREIGN DESCENT GROUPS; RELIGION AND CHURCHES  RELIGION (93%); IMMIGRATION
(92%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (92%); LEGISLATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%);
CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CHILDREN (89%);
ORPHANS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LEGISLATORS (76%); NATURALIZATION
(75%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (70%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (70%); ADOLESCENTS (70%);

PERSON: ALAN K SIMPSON  (71%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              180 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                March 21, 1982, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

The Nation;
An Immigration Proposal That Gets Somewhere

BYLINE: By Michael Wright and Caroline Rand Herron

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4, Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 251 words


President Ford, President Carter and the 96th Congress all studied immigration
policy. So did President Reagan who, like Mr. Carter, issued legislative
proposals. Last week, the 97th Congress went further, producing an actual reform
bill.

The measure, introduced in the Senate by Alan K. Simpson, Republican of Wyoming,
and in the House by Romano L. Mazzoli, a Kentucky Democrat, would offer
permanent resident status to those who entered the country illegally before 1978
and temporary status, which could be upgraded after two years, to those who
entered before 1980.  Those arriving after that, Mr. Mazzoli said, ''would have
to go back home.'' The Reagan Administration had proposed a 10-year waiting
period, which critics said would be too long to be effective.

The Simpson-Mazzoli bill would come down harder on employers who knowingly hired
illegal workers than the Administration, subjecting those with even a single
illegal employee to fines of up to $2,000 and six-month prison terms. Mr. Reagan
had sought to limit comparable sanctions to employers with four or more illegal
workers.  The bill would also require the President to develop a ''universal
employment authorization'' system to determine a worker's eligibility, something
Mr. Reagan opposes. Instead of the President's guest-worker program, it would
''streamline'' existing programs admitting laborers from Mexico, Jamaica and
other countries.

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%);

STATE: KENTUCKY, USA (92%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES  UNITED STATES (92%);   KENTUCKY, USA (92%);

SUBJECT: LAW AND LEGISLATION; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION  IMMIGRATION (92%);
IMMIGRATION LAW (91%); US PRESIDENTS (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); PUBLIC POLICY
(90%); FOREIGN LABOR (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); FINES & PENALTIES (78%);
US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%);
RECRUITMENT & HIRING (68%);

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (93%); JIMMY CARTER (92%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: photo of Alan Simpson and Romano Mazzoli

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              181 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                March 19, 1982, Friday, Late City Final Edition

ABSCAM APPEAL DISMISSED; RIGHTS FOUND NOT VIOLATED

BYLINE: By ARNOLD H. LUBASCH

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 924 words


A conviction obtained in the Abscam investigation was affirmed yesterday by a
Federal appeals court in a decision that said lawenforcement agents could use
''special investigative techniques to uncover insidious corruption.''

The ruling focused on a relatively minor defendant, Alexander A.  Alexandro Jr.,
an investigator with the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

Mr. Alexandro was convicted of accepting a bribe to obtain an immigration
document for the friend of an ''Arab sheik'' who turned out to be an undercover
agent of the Federal Bureau of Investigation.

In dismissing the appeal, the United States Court of Appeals for the Second
Circuit ruled in Manhattan that Mr. Alexandro's constitutional right to due
process had not been violated by the methods of the Abscam investigation.

Lawyers familiar with the case believe it could hold significance for other
appeals involving important political figures.

Convicted Political Figures

Political figures convicted in Abscam trials held in the Second Circuit include
former Representatives John M. Murphy of Staten Island, Frank Thompson Jr. of
Trenton and Michael J. Myers and Raymond F. Lederer, both of Philadelphia, as
well as former Senator Harrison A. Williams Jr. of New Jersey.

The Alexandro decision was the first review of an Abscam conviction to be
decided by the appeals court. Some of the same basic issues also arise in the
convictions of several politicians who are appealing to the court, although each
case contains individual circumstances.

Judge Irving R. Kaufman wrote the unanimous decision in the Alexandro case with
the concurrence of Judge Lawrence W. Pierce and Judge Charles S. Haight Jr.

The decision was welcomed by Thomas P. Puccio, the chief Abscam prosecutor in
the Second Circuit. He said it was ''a clear reaffirmation, by one of our
nation's leading jurists, of the necessity for more modern and sophisticated
investigative techniques in the Government's fight against official
corruption.''

Lawyer Leaves It to Top Court

Mr. Alexandro's lawyer, Joel Winograd, commented that ''the United States
Supreme Court will have to make the final decision as to whether the F.B.I. can
conduct themselves in this manner.''

In yesterday's 26-page decision, Judge Kaufman said Government agents could
''employ artifice to apprehend public servants.'' But due-process rights would
be violated, he said, if the conduct of Government agents reached a level of
''shocking the conscience.''

''Such instances, given the interests at stake, will be exceedingly rare,'' the
judge added, referring to instances of due-process violations.

'Means Vindicated the End'

''The line,'' he said, ''between lawful subterfuge and excessive Government
involvement in violation of the due-process clause of the Constitution, is drawn
when the end sought cannot be justified by the means used.''

''We find it clear in this case,'' he declared, ''that the means fully
vindicated the end - apprehending by lawful means one who showed a willingness
to abuse the public trust.''

Judge Kaufman also cautioned, however, that ''any method of achieving a goal is
not necessarily acceptable.''

Protection of Rights

''At the heart of our democracy,'' he said, ''rests the precept, woven into the
fabric of our law by the framers of the Constitution, that all individuals are
protected from overreaching Government conduct.

''This time-honored principle has guided our deliberations as we have considered
the activities challenged by appellant Alexandro.  ''To summarize what we have
concluded, the Government participation in the scheme concocted by Alexandro
simply was not sufficiently intrusive to be deemed violative of Alexandro's
rights under the due process clause.''

Mr. Alexandro was convicted of having agreed to accept a $15,000 bribe to obtain
an immigration document for an alien. The trial included a videotape and other
evidence. He received a four-year sentence from Judge Mark A. Costantino in
Federal District Court in Brooklyn.

In the appeal, Mr. Alexandro contended that the involvement of Government agents
in the illegal immigration scheme was ''so repugnant and excessive'' that the
conviction should be dismissed.

Assault on F.B.I Methods

But the argument was rejected by the appeals court, which noted that Mr.
Alexandro had not been forced to participate in the scheme and could have simply
said ''no'' when offered a bribe.

Observing that Abscam ''generated a heavy assault'' on the F.B.I.  procedures,
Judge Kaufman described the investigation as ''a stratagem of convoluted ploys
and schemes designed to test the faith of those in the high echelons of
Government who are the repositories of the public trust.''

''Given the special relationship between the public and those who serve the
Government,'' he said, ''it is inevitable that the public will call for, and
law- enforcement officials will rely upon, special investigative techniques to
uncover insidious corruption.

''Modern crime-fighting methods, such as videotapes and carefully devised and
supervised covert investigations, often are the only means of discovering
breaches of the fundamental mandate of one's office.''

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%);

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%);

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%);

COMPANY: STATEN ISLAND TERMINAL (55%);   FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION  (57%);

 FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (57%);

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION  (57%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF
INVESTIGATION (57%);

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%);   NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%);
   NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%);

SUBJECT: DECISIONS AND VERDICTS; BRIBERY; INTELLIGENCE SERVICES  APPEALS COURTS
(93%); INVESTIGATIONS (91%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (90%); APPEALS (90%); BRIBERY
(90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); DUE PROCESS (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%);
SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (78%); VERDICTS (78%);
LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%);
US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); SUPREME COURTS (78%); IMMIGRATION (77%); POLITICAL
CORRUPTION (77%); POLITICS (74%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (73%); PASSPORTS & VISAS

 (72%);

PERSON: IRVING ROBERT 'IRVING R' KAUFMAN  (54%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              182 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                March 19, 1982, Friday, Late City Final Edition

ABSCAM APPEAL DISMISSED; RIGHTS FOUND NOT VIOLATED

BYLINE: By ARNOLD H. LUBASCH

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 924 words


A conviction obtained in the Abscam investigation was affirmed yesterday by a
Federal appeals court in a decision that said lawenforcement agents could use
''special investigative techniques to uncover insidious corruption.''

The ruling focused on a relatively minor defendant, Alexander A.  Alexandro Jr.,
an investigator with the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

Mr. Alexandro was convicted of accepting a bribe to obtain an immigration
document for the friend of an ''Arab sheik'' who turned out to be an undercover
agent of the Federal Bureau of Investigation.

In dismissing the appeal, the United States Court of Appeals for the Second
Circuit ruled in Manhattan that Mr. Alexandro's constitutional right to due
process had not been violated by the methods of the Abscam investigation.

Lawyers familiar with the case believe it could hold significance for other
appeals involving important political figures.

Convicted Political Figures

Political figures convicted in Abscam trials held in the Second Circuit include
former Representatives John M. Murphy of Staten Island, Frank Thompson Jr. of
Trenton and Michael J. Myers and Raymond F. Lederer, both of Philadelphia, as
well as former Senator Harrison A. Williams Jr. of New Jersey.

The Alexandro decision was the first review of an Abscam conviction to be
decided by the appeals court. Some of the same basic issues also arise in the
convictions of several politicians who are appealing to the court, although each
case contains individual circumstances.

Judge Irving R. Kaufman wrote the unanimous decision in the Alexandro case with
the concurrence of Judge Lawrence W. Pierce and Judge Charles S. Haight Jr.

The decision was welcomed by Thomas P. Puccio, the chief Abscam prosecutor in
the Second Circuit. He said it was ''a clear reaffirmation, by one of our
nation's leading jurists, of the necessity for more modern and sophisticated
investigative techniques in the Government's fight against official
corruption.''

Lawyer Leaves It to Top Court

Mr. Alexandro's lawyer, Joel Winograd, commented that ''the United States
Supreme Court will have to make the final decision as to whether the F.B.I. can
conduct themselves in this manner.''

In yesterday's 26-page decision, Judge Kaufman said Government agents could
''employ artifice to apprehend public servants.'' But due-process rights would
be violated, he said, if the conduct of Government agents reached a level of
''shocking the conscience.''

''Such instances, given the interests at stake, will be exceedingly rare,'' the
judge added, referring to instances of due-process violations.

'Means Vindicated the End'

''The line,'' he said, ''between lawful subterfuge and excessive Government
involvement in violation of the due-process clause of the Constitution, is drawn
when the end sought cannot be justified by the means used.''

''We find it clear in this case,'' he declared, ''that the means fully
vindicated the end - apprehending by lawful means one who showed a willingness
to abuse the public trust.''

Judge Kaufman also cautioned, however, that ''any method of achieving a goal is
not necessarily acceptable.''

Protection of Rights

''At the heart of our democracy,'' he said, ''rests the precept, woven into the
fabric of our law by the framers of the Constitution, that all individuals are
protected from overreaching Government conduct.

''This time-honored principle has guided our deliberations as we have considered
the activities challenged by appellant Alexandro.  ''To summarize what we have
concluded, the Government participation in the scheme concocted by Alexandro
simply was not sufficiently intrusive to be deemed violative of Alexandro's
rights under the due process clause.''

Mr. Alexandro was convicted of having agreed to accept a $15,000 bribe to obtain
an immigration document for an alien. The trial included a videotape and other
evidence. He received a four-year sentence from Judge Mark A. Costantino in
Federal District Court in Brooklyn.

In the appeal, Mr. Alexandro contended that the involvement of Government agents
in the illegal immigration scheme was ''so repugnant and excessive'' that the
conviction should be dismissed.

Assault on F.B.I Methods

But the argument was rejected by the appeals court, which noted that Mr.
Alexandro had not been forced to participate in the scheme and could have simply
said ''no'' when offered a bribe.

Observing that Abscam ''generated a heavy assault'' on the F.B.I.  procedures,
Judge Kaufman described the investigation as ''a stratagem of convoluted ploys
and schemes designed to test the faith of those in the high echelons of
Government who are the repositories of the public trust.''

''Given the special relationship between the public and those who serve the
Government,'' he said, ''it is inevitable that the public will call for, and
law-enforcement officials will rely upon, special investigative techniques to
uncover insidious corruption.

''Modern crime-fighting methods, such as videotapes and carefully devised and
supervised covert investigations, often are the only means of discovering
breaches of the fundamental mandate of one's office.''

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%);

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%);

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%);

COMPANY: STATEN ISLAND TERMINAL (55%);   FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION  (57%);

 FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (57%);

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION  (57%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF
INVESTIGATION (57%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES  UNITED STATES (94%);   NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW
JERSEY, USA (79%);   NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%);

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; DECISIONS AND VERDICTS;
GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES  APPEALS COURTS (93%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); APPELLATE
DECISIONS (90%); APPEALS (90%); POLITICS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%);
DUE PROCESS (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%);
CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (78%); VERDICTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); JUSTICE
DEPARTMENTS (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%);
SUPREME COURTS (78%); IMMIGRATION (77%); BRIBERY (77%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION
(77%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (72%);

PERSON: IRVING ROBERT 'IRVING R' KAUFMAN  (54%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              183 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               March 18, 1982, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

Not Nativist, Not Racist, Not Mean

SECTION: Section A; Page 26, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 484 words


A Republican Senator and a Democratic Congressman joined yesterday to introduce
a rare piece of legislation: a responsible immigration bill.

To understand just how rare, look back into history to, say, the Johnson Act of
1924. Its national-origins quota system reverberated with nativism and racism.
Or the McCarran-Walter Act of 1952. Though partly reformed in 1965, it remains
the basic immigration law; the very name still connotes mean-spirited
red-baiting.

Consider, by comparison, the new proposal by Senator Alan Simpson, a Wyoming
Republican, and Representative Romano Mazzoli, a Kentucky Democrat. We don't
agree with all of it. We wish they were willing, separately and swiftly, to
correct the shamefully long detention of Haitian migrants. But there will be
time later for objection. As a general proposition, the Simpson-Mazzoli bill is
at once tough, fair and humane.

First, tough. The United States cannot conceivably let in all the worldwide
millions who want in. That means controlling our own borders and that, in turn,
means something called employer sanctions. Federal law must forbid hiring
illegal immigrants and also provide employers with a way to identify who they
are. The Simpson-Mazzoli bill would do both. Without being specific, it calls
for the gradual development of a limited, reasonable process of identification.

Second, fair. There is growing sentiment in Congress for a harsh ceiling on
immigration. The Simpson-Mazzoli proposal accepts the principle, calling for a
limit of 425,000 people a year (apart from refugees, whose entry is regulated by
a 1980 act). The 425,000 figure is low and subject to bargaining. But it is
neither arbitrary nor regressive: it approximates present immigration, which the
country knows it can handle comfortably.

Third, humane. A large number of foreign migrants - maybe half a million, maybe
two and a half million - have lived in this country for years, but under a
cloud: they entered illegally. Fearful of detection, they are vulnerable to
exploitation. Previous proposals for amnesty have failed as too harsh or too
soft-headed. The new bill strikes a reasonable compromise, providing legal
status to aliens if they have lived here since 1978.

Reasonable compromise may, indeed, be the key to the whole bill.  Immigration
involves an array of competing interests that conform to no party or ideological
lines. Senator Simpson and Representative Mazzoli have balanced the ideas of the
Administration and a blueribbon immigration commission; of labor, employers and
minority groups; of different regions; of other countries.

The resulting bill is a genuine political achievement, aligning Congress with
the best, instead of the worst, in the American immigration tradition.

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%);

STATE: KENTUCKY, USA (79%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES  UNITED STATES (93%);   KENTUCKY, USA (79%);

SUBJECT: LAW AND LEGISLATION; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION  IMMIGRATION (94%);
LEGISLATION (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); LEGISLATORS (90%); US REPUBLICAN
PARTY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RACE &
RACISM (90%); THIS DAY IN HISTORY (89%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (89%); REFUGEES
(78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); IMMIGRATION LAW (78%); AMNESTY (72%); BORDER
CONTROL (67%);

PERSON: ALAN K SIMPSON  (92%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              184 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               March 18, 1982, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

BIPARTISAN LEGISLTION INTRODCED TO RESTRUCTURE IMMIGRATION LAWS

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section B; Page 17, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 727 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 17


Two members of Congress, in a bipartisan initiative, today offered a
long-awaited, comprehensive proposal to restructure the nation's immigration
law.

The bill differs in several important respects from President Reagan's
proposals. It offers more generous terms for legalizing the status of illegal
aliens and contains stricter requirements for all job applicants, including
citizens, to show valid identification.

The bill was introduced in the Senate by Alan K. Simpson, Republican of Wyoming,
and in the House by Representative Romano L.  Mazzoli, Democrat of Kentucky, the
chairmen of the immigration subcommittees of the Senate and House Judiciary
Committees.

The Simpson-Mazzoli bill contains no guest-worker program such as that proposed
by the President. But it would ''streamline'' the existing program for the
admission of laborers from Mexico, Jamaica and other countries, permitting a
future expansion of the program.

Penalties Apply to All

Under the bill, employers hiring illegal aliens would be subject to a $1,000
fine and six months' imprisonment for conviction of any offense after the first
two. These penalties would apply to all employers, even those with just one
employee. Mr. Reagan's proposal would apply only to employers with four or more
employees.

The bill would also provide for 70 administrative law judges to hear the large
backlog of asylum claims and deportation cases, and it would forbid judicial
review of claims denied. However, an alien held in a detention camp could still
challenge his detention on constitutional grounds by seeking a writ of habeas
corpus.

The Reagan Administration termed the proposal a constructive effort, and
Attorney General William French Smith emphasized the Administration's commitment
to a comprehensive revision of the immigration laws.

The bill contains no provision to regularize the status of illegal aliens who
arrived in the United States after Jan. 1, 1980. They ''would have to go back
home'' unless they qualified for admission under some other section of the law,
Mr. Mazzoli said.

Legalizing Illegal Aliens

Under the bill, illegal aliens who arrived in the United States before Jan. 1,
1978, could become lawful permanent residents. Five years after becoming
permanent residents they could apply for citizenship. Illegal aliens who arrived
from Jan. 1, 1978, to Jan. 1, 1980, could become temporary residents and, after
a two-year wait, could become permanent residents.

The Simpson-Mazzoli bill gives the President three years to ''develop and
implement a secure system'' to determine whether job applicants are eligible to
work in the United States. Mr. Simpson said the system might use a revised
Social Security card or some type of data-processing device.

In the meantime, employers would have to ask job applicants for documents to
establish their identity and their eligibility to work.  A United States
passport would satisfy both requirements. Otherwise, the applicant would have to
show a prospective employer a Social Security card or birth certificate, as well
as a driver's license or an identification card issued by the state government
or the immigration service.

Antonia Hernandez of the Mexican American Legal Defense and Educational Fund
said that the legislation, if enacted, would ''create a large black market for
forged documents'' and would lead employers to discriminate against Hispanic
Americans.

----

Inspection of 2 Camps Sought

Special to the New York Times

WASHINGTON, March 17 - The Inter-American Commission on Human Rights has asked
the United States for permission to inspect two refugee camps where Haitians who
entered the country illegally are being held.

The two camps are Fort Allen in Puerto Rico and the Krome detention center in
Miami.  According to the International Human Rights Law Group, this is the first
request made by an international organization for an on-site inspection of an
American detention facility. The law group brought the case to the attention of
the commission, which is a part of the Organization of American States.

The law group contended that the United States was engaged in continuing
violations of human rights at the two camps.

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES  UNITED STATES (95%);

SUBJECT: LAW AND LEGISLATION; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION  IMMIGRATION (93%);
IMMIGRATION LAW (93%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); FOREIGN LABOR (90%);
LEGISLATION (90%); LEGISLATORS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS
(89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY
(78%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (78%); CITIZENSHIP LAW (78%); POLITICAL ASYLUM (78%);
NATURALIZATION (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); DEPORTATION (78%); US DEMOCRATIC
PARTY (76%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (76%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (73%); FINES &
PENALTIES (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (72%); JAIL SENTENCING (72%); CRIMINAL
CONVICTIONS (72%); HABEAS CORPUS (72%); JUDICIAL REVIEW (70%); ADMINISTRATIVE
LAW JUDGES (70%); JUDGES (67%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (65%); CITIZENSHIP (65%);
AGENCY ADJUDICATION (65%);

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (92%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: photo of Alan K. Simpson and Romano L. Mazzoli

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              185 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               March 17, 1982, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

U.S. AND NICARAGUA DIFFER ON TALE OF THE RECANTER

BYLINE: By BARBARA CROSSETTE, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 11, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 695 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 16


Administration and Nicaraguan officials today presented differing versions of
events surrounding the trip to the United States of a 19-year-old Nicaraguan who
last Friday startled State Department officials by recanting his earlier
assertions of Nicaraguan interference in El Salvador.

According to the State Department spokesman, Dean Fischer, the Nicaraguan,
Orlando Jose Tardencilla Ezpinosa, came to the United States early last week on
a nonimmigrant visa issued at the United States Embassy in San Salvador.

Mr. Fischer said that after Mr. Tardencilla's appearance before reporters on
Friday afternoon, followed by a diplomatic note from Nicaraguan officials
seeking to meet the young man, the Nicaraguan had asked to be returned to
Nicaragua. ''Since Tardencilla had not violated any immigration law by his
presence here,'' Mr. Fischer said, ''the State Department decided to grant his
wish and to allow him to return to Nicaragua.''

Nicaraguan officials say, however, that Mr. Tardencilla had no identity papers
or visa when he was turned over to Nicaraguan diplomats at the State Department
here at about 2:30 A.M. on Saturday. The lack of papers made it difficult to get
him out of the country, they say. It was only through the intervention of a
Nicaraguan diplomat in Mexico, Nicaraguan officials say, that an airline agreed
to fly the young man from Chicago to Mexico later in the day on Saturday.

Returned to Nicaragua

Mr. Tardencilla returned home to Nicaragua from Mexico Monday.  The Nicaraguans
believe, based on Mr. Tardencilla's own version of the matter, that State
Department officials were unsure last week that the young man would provide the
evidence of Nicaraguan involvement in El Salvador that the State Department was
seeking.

Mr. Tardencilla said he was interviewed over and over again in the unnamed hotel
in Washington where he was being held by the Americans, who negotiated with him
the terms of his appearance. Among the demands Mr. Tardencilla told the
Nicaraguans he had made was a request for a Spanish-speaking reporter at the
briefing and for the presence of someone from The Washington Post.

Accounts of Nicaraguans who have spoken with Mr. Tardencilla since last Friday
portray the young man as a bright boy who became caught up in the fervor of
revolution and developed a taste for guerrilla warfare when the Sandinists came
to power in Managua in 1979.

With that guerrilla war over, Mr. Tardencilla turned to the fighting in El
Salvador. His decision to join that fight was entirely his own, according to the
Nicaraguans, who said that the young man had told them he had entered El
Salvador surreptitiously, leaving his identity papers behind in Nicaragua so
that he would not be linked to the Government in Managua.

Not Alone in Joining Rebels

Nicaraguans say that there were others like Mr. Tardencilla who went in search
of a new war in the region when peace returned to Nicaragua.

Mr. Tardencilla was arrested in El Salvador in January 1981 and had been in the
custody of the Salvadoran Treasury Police - by common Salvadoran agreement the
most brutal of the Salvadoran armed forces.  According to Mr. Tardencilla,
Nicaraguan officials said today, he had been kept with other ''foreign''
prisoners, all accused of being freelance guerrillas. He asserted that he had
been tortured while in custody.

In news conferences in El Salvador last year, Mr. Tardencilla told reporters
that he was part of a Nicaraguan force operating in El Salvador and that he had
been trained in Ethiopia and Cuba.

He said that last week two Americans asked him if he would like to go to the
United States and tell his story. He said he told them he would be willing to
tell the truth. They then told him, Mr.  Tardencilla was reported to have said,
that if he didn't go he could be ''sent back to Caballeria,'' the Salvadoran
town where he was arrested and tortured.

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (52%);

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (52%); NAICS515120
TELEVISION BROADCASTING  (52%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS  (52%);
NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS  (52%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING
(52%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (52%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS

 (52%);

COUNTRY: NICARAGUA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); EL SALVADOR (95%);

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%);

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%);

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO  (52%); WASHINGTON POST CO (52%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NICARAGUA; SALVADOR, EL  NICARAGUA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); EL
SALVADOR (95%);   DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%);   CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%);

SUBJECT: UNITED STATE INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY
FORCES  STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES
(84%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (77%); PASSPORTS & VISAS
(76%); IMMIGRATION (71%); IMMIGRATION LAW (54%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              186 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                March 16, 1982, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

Trial Begins in Miami On Haitian Detention

BYLINE: Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 16, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 286 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, March 15


A lawsuit seeking the release of about 3,000 Haitian immigrants from detention
camps went to trial today in Federal District Court.

The Haitians are being held by the Immigration and Naturalization Service
pending hearings on either their requests for asylum or their exclusion or
deportation.

Judge Eugene P. Spellman has been asked to decide the legality of detaining
''all Haitians who arrived in the Southern District of Florida after May 20,
1981,'' who are seeking political asylum.

The class-action lawsuit against the Federal Government was filed last June by
the Haitian Refugee Center of Miami. About 600 Haitians are being held at the
Krome Detention Center west of Miami, the largest such camp in the nation. With
about 65 witnesses scheduled to testify, the trial is expected to last at least
two weeks.

In filing the suit, attorneys for the Haitians accused the Government of
misconduct and discriminatory practices, but the judge dismissed those counts
and limited the trial to deciding only the legality of the Federal detention
policy as practiced toward Haitians.

Government attorneys contend that the Immigration and Naturalization Service has
followed the existing laws and regulations in detaining the Haitians, who are
described as illegal aliens.

However, Charles Gordon, former general counsel to the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, testified today for the plaintiffs that ''hundreds of
people'' who arrived in this country and asked for political asylum had been
paroled because the agency decided that ''incarceration was not necessary.''

COUNTRY: HAITI (95%); UNITED STATES (94%);

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (94%);

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (94%);

COMPANY: IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE  (93%); IMMIGRATION &
NATURALIZATION SERVICE (93%);

ORGANIZATION: IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE  (93%); IMMIGRATION &
NATURALIZATION SERVICE (93%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;HAITI  HAITI (95%); UNITED STATES (94%);   FLORIDA, USA (94%);
MIAMI, FL, USA (94%);

SUBJECT: REFUGEES AND EXPATRIATES; PRISONS AND PRISONERS  IMMIGRATION (95%);
TESTIMONY (90%); IMMIGRANT DETENTION CENTERS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); LAWYERS
(90%); REFUGEES (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%);
IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); POLITICAL ASYLUM (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%);
MISCONDUCT (86%); PRISONS (78%); WITNESSES (78%); DISCRIMINATION (78%); PUBLIC
POLICY (78%); JUDGES (78%); JAIL SENTENCING (78%); PAROLE (78%); DEPORTATION
(78%); CLASS ACTIONS (73%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (73%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (73%);

PERSON: CHARLES GORDON  (55%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              187 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                March 16, 1982, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition
                              Correction Appended

EMERGING ISSUES: CRIME, ENERGY AND POLISH DEBTS

BYLINE: By STEVEN V. ROBERTS, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 20, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1062 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 15


A few issues generally dominate the agenda on Capitol Hill, gathering, like
leafy trees, the sunlight of publicity and stunting other matters struggling to
receive a public hearing.

Overshadowing everything else at the moment are the budget, taxes and El
Salvador. But a few saplings are striving for attention, and in the next several
months, three of these growth issues could emerge as important topics of concern
- crime, energy prices and Polish debts.

''Crime is the issue, especially in New York,'' said Representative Geraldine A.
Ferraro, Democrat of Queens.  It is not unusual for urban lawmakers to hear
about crime from their constituents, but the issue is clearly spreading. In New
Hampshire, according to Senator Warren B. Rudman, his people worry about
burglaries, not street crime, but the fears are just as real.  In southern
Florida, the influx of drugs and refugees from the Caribbean has led to calls
for tighter immigration laws, as well as better law enforcement.

''Crime is the hidden social issue of the 80s - not abortion or busing,'' said
Representative Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of Brooklyn. ''Ten years ago crime
was a Brooklyn issue. Five years ago it was a metropolitan New York issue. Now
it's a national issue.''

This concern has caused a change in the political climate. A decade ago, many
liberals saw ''law and order'' as a code phrase for racism and a threat to civil
liberties. They shunned the issue. But now, Senator Edward M. Kennedy's office
distributes a pamphlet entitled, ''Violent Crime: It's Time To Act.''

''This is a challenge to the Democratic Party,'' said Mr. Schumer, a 31-year-old
freshman Congressman with a Harvard law degree. ''One reason so many blue collar
and middle class voters went for Reagan is that we had no effective answer to
the crime issue. The Republicans don't, either, but they talk tough.''

There is a lot of tough talk on Capitol Hill these days, but translating fear of
crime into practical legislation is very difficult. Most criminal issues fall
under local jurisdictions, and even at the national level, a consensus has yet
to develop.

Liberals tend to see the issue as a ''money problem,'' in Mr.  Schumer's words,
and suggest spending more on prisons, courts, police training and the like. But
in a time of tight budgets this is hardly a popular viewpoint.

The conservative answer leans toward harsher penalties and tighter legal
procedures that embody the philosophy expressed by Senator Strom Thurmond, the
chairman of the Judiciary Committee. ''We've got to get tough with these
people,'' said the South Carolina Republican.

Senator Thurmond hopes the Senate will soon consider bills imposing the death
penalty for certain Federal crimes along with those that would revise the
criminal code. Other bills inching through the legislative pipeline would make
it easier to introduce illegallyseized evidence at criminal trials and to hold
suspects in ''preventive detention'' while they wait for trial. But for all the
fears about crime, Mr. Schumer says the issue lacks the sort of ''organized
constituency'' needed to force the issue through Congress.

''Nobody,'' he said, ''except the average citizen, comes into my office to talk
about crime.''

A year ago, the Northeast-Midwest Congressional Coalition put out a statement
that said, ''A rift between energy 'winners' and 'losers' is dividing America, a
rift between the 12 states whose abundant energy resources assure them of
continued wealth and economic expansion and the rest of the country.''

If anything, the rift has grown wider since. In a recent report, the coalition
referred to the energy-producing states as ''The United American Emirates.'' In
the Southwest, bumper stickers exhort motorists to drive faster and ''freeze a
Yankee.'' Senator Dale Bumpers, Democrat of Arkansas, says that the enormous
profits from severance taxes flowing into a few states are ''going to create
something closely akin to an energy war.''

As an example, Frost Belt Republicans have been virtually unanimous in rejecting
White House proposals to reduce research into alternative sources of energy,
such as solar power.

''The only way the Northeast can get by,'' said Senator Rudman, a New Hampshire
Republican, ''is to use less fuel, and use it more efficiently. We have to find
alternative sources of energy, and the Administration is dead wrong on this
one.''

Frost Belt lawmakers are even more incensed by the President's proposal to
return more programs to the state level. ''There are budget surpluses in the
producing states,'' groused Representative Dennis E. Eckart, Democrat of Ohio,
''while Ohio, Pennsylvania and New York face deficits. And now we have the new
federalism forced down our throats.''

The enmity is even greater because the Sun Belters feel that they have an old
score to settle. ''The North held the whip hand for so long, and you can't wipe
out the memories,'' said Senator Lloyd Bentsen, Democrat of Texas.

Foreign affairs do not intrude on Congressional business very often, but the
issue of the Polish debts has crystalized a mood that President Reagan used
adroitly during his campaign: the desire to ''get tough'' with the Russians.

The dispute began when Poland failed to pay about $71 million owed American
banks that had been guaranteed by a Government agency. The Reagan Administration
decided to pay off the loans, without forcing Poland to declare default, on the
ground that such a default would cause panic in the international banking
community.

But the Administration found itself victimized by its own campaign promises.
''People have heard so much of the Administration's anti-Communist, anti-Soviet
rhetoric that they saw this as a chance to put it on the line,'' said
Representative Eckart, Democrat of Ohio. ''And now the Administration is backing
away.''

Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, Democrat of New York, spoke for a number of his
colleagues recently when he said: ''I have been profoundly disappointed by the
failure of the United States Government to put in place a coherent and effective
response to the suspension of civil liberties and human rights in Poland.''

The Administration survived several test votes on this issue last month, but
Senator Robert W. Kastenmeier, Republican of Wisconsin, vows to bring it up
again. ''This issue won't go away,'' he said.

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); POLAND (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (56%);

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%);

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;POLAND  UNITED STATES (92%); POLAND (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (56%);

   NEW YORK, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%);   NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%);

SUBJECT: CRIME AND CRIMINALS; ENERGY AND POWER  US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%);
LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); BUDGETS (89%); POLITICAL
PARTIES (89%); LIBERALISM (78%); LEGISLATORS (78%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (78%); CITY
LIFE (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (76%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT
(76%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); FINES & PENALTIES (73%);
LEGISLATION (73%); IMMIGRATION LAW (72%); POLICE FORCES (72%); CONSERVATISM
(72%); CAPITAL CRIMES (71%); VIOLENT CRIME (71%); BURGLARY (71%); CITIES (70%);
REFUGEES (69%); IMMIGRATION (68%);

PERSON: CHARLES SCHUMER  (68%); CHARLES SCHUMER (68%); TED KENNEDY (54%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: March 17, 1982, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

CORRECTION:

Because of an editing error, an article on the Washington Talk page yesterday
incorrectly identified a legislator who was quoted about the Administration's
handling of Polish debts.  He is Senator Robert W. Kasten Jr., Republican of
Wisconsin.

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: drawing

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              188 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                March 12, 1982, Friday, Late City Final Edition

B. Meredith Langstaff Dead; Lawyer and Brooklyn Leader

SECTION: Section D; Page 15, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 186 words


B. Meredith Langstaff, a lawyer and longtime community leader in Brooklyn, died
Feb. 28 at Long Island College Hospital in Brooklyn.  Mr. Langstaff, who lived
in Brooklyn Heights, was 96 years old.

He practiced corporate and immigration law and was a member of the law firm of
Donovan, Leisure, Newton & Irvine in Manhattan until his retirement in 1972.

Mr. Langstaff was born in Brooklyn, attended Boys' High School and graduated
from Harvard College and Columbia Law School.  He was a captain in the 77th
Infantry Division in World War I. He was a former president of the Brooklyn
Heights Association, founder of the Garden Place Association and a former
chairman of the Brooklyn Symphony Orchestra.

Mr. Langstaff is survived by three sons, John, of Lexington, Mass., Kennedy, of
Stamford, Conn., and David, of Brooklyn; a daughter, Esther Horstmann of
Holderness, N.H.; 14 grandchildren and five great-grandchildren.

A memorial service will be held tomorrow at 11 A.M. at Grace Episcopal Church in
Brooklyn Heights.

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%);

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (69%); CONNECTICUT, USA (52%);

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%);

COMPANY: DONOVAN LEISURE NEWTON IRVINE (58%);   LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY  (91%);
LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (91%);

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY  (91%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (91%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;LEGAL PROFESSION  UNITED STATES (96%);   NEW YORK, USA (96%);
MASSACHUSETTS, USA (69%); CONNECTICUT, USA (52%);   NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%);

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION  DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); LAW SCHOOLS (88%);

 LAWYERS (88%); GRANDCHILDREN (87%); HIGH SCHOOLS (87%); CHRISTIANS &
CHRISTIANITY (80%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (73%); IMMIGRATION LAW
(71%); WORLD WAR I (69%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (67%); IMMIGRATION (57%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              189 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               March 10, 1982, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

Holding Haitians Hostage

SECTION: Section A; Page 26, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 501 words


Now and then, a Federal court can rescue the other two branches from the
stupidities of their own paralysis - which is just what Federal District Judge
Robert Carter may have done concerning the Haitians.

The Immigration Service is holding about 2,500 of them in detention camps
pending hearings. In a New York case involving eight Haitians, Judge Carter
found the detention wrongful. Other migrants with similar records are not
detained: he found that 90 of 91 non-Haitians were released. But 81 of 86
Haitians have been held for months, in substandard facilities. ''Discriminatory
decisionmaking,'' the judge ruled, and he's right.

Not even accused criminals are imprisoned without the opportunity for bail. Yet
the Haitians are not criminals. They are poor blacks fleeing poverty, or
persecution. To put them in camps is discriminatory and cruel. Worse, it is
needless. Judge Carter's court decision may help end a burning national
embarrassment - as may a trial in a similar, larger case scheduled to start
Monday in Miami.  The wonder is that the Administration and Congress haven't
felt more embarrassed.

Though some Haitians are admissible as political refugees, most are not. The
camps arose because Washington wanted to deter the illegals. That objective is
sound. The United States cannot, even at its most generous, admit everyone
fleeing misfortune all over the world; we have to draw a line somewhere.  But
Washington has been coldly wrong in its handling of the Haitians.

For word of the camps to drift back to Haiti may be some deterrence. But speedy
action on their individual cases would permit a much stronger deterrent: the
prompt return to Haiti of those who are inadmissible. The key, then, is a faster
hearing process, which the Administration, to its modest credit, has proposed to
Congress.  The response in Congress, however, has been to turn the Haitians into
hostages.

Senator Simpson of Wyoming and others are shaping a big new immigration reform
proposal. It will be endlessly controversial so they want the broadest possible
coalition of interests behind it.  Hence they insist on including the Haitian
hearing measure.  Understandable, but only as tactics, only as abstraction.

For while Congressmen maneuver, real people languish in the camps.  Many have
now waited, aimlessly, for eight months. Husbands remain separated from wives,
children from parents. Lawyers tell of case after case of extreme boredom,
severe depression, even attempted suicide. Every day that these detention camps
continue is a day our country defames itself.

Yes, America needs to get control of its borders. Yes, America needs to send out
a signal that we are serious about doing so. The signal of the camps, however,
is not that we are serious but that we are racist, mindless, cruel.

COUNTRY: HAITI (97%); UNITED STATES (94%);

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (57%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;HAITI  HAITI (97%); UNITED STATES (94%);   MIAMI, FL, USA (57%);

SUBJECT: REFUGEES AND EXPATRIATES; LAW AND LEGISLATION; BUREAUCRATIC RED TAPE
JUDGES (92%); LITIGATION (90%); REFUGEES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%);
SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS

 (90%); IMMIGRANT DETENTION CENTERS (89%); IMMIGRATION (89%); HOSTAGE TAKING
(89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); JAIL SENTENCING (78%);
IMMIGRATION LAW (78%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (77%); RACE & RACISM (75%); POVERTY &
HOMELESSNESS (69%); SUICIDE (60%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              190 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                March 6, 1982, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

JUDGE, CITING BIAS, ORDERS RELEASE OF EIGHT HAITIANS

BYLINE: By ARNOLD H. LUBASCH

SECTION: Section 2; Page 25, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 696 words


A Federal judge ruled yesterday that the Immigration and Naturalization Service
must release a group of detained Haitian refugees within 10 days unless it
proved that ''any or all of them pose a risk of absconding.''

The decision, issued by Judge Robert L. Carter in Federal District Court in
Manhattan, applies specifically to eight Haitians who filed petitions for
release from an immigration detention center in the Brooklyn Navy Yard.

In addition to the eight, however, the decision could affect 300 other Haitians
held in New York State as well as more than 2,000 others being detained
throughout the country.

Broad Effect Seen

Judge Carter found that the immigration official who denied parole to the eight
petitioners had discriminated against them ''because of their race or national
origin.''

A lawyer for the group, Steven Shapiro of the New York Civil Liberties Union,
said the judge's decision would also apply to other Haitians. Unless the
Government extends the decision to the others, he said, a class-action suit will
be filed for them.

''This was a test case of the Government's Haitian policy,'' Mr.  Shapiro added,
''and the Government has clearly failed the test.'' Thomas H. Belote, the
Government's lawyer in the case, said he was studying the decision to determine
what the judge was requiring and whether an appeal should be filed.

In the 49-page decision, Judge Carter said the case involved the petitions of
eight Haitians, so-called boat people, who arrived in Florida last June and
July, requesting political asylum.

These eight were among more than 80 Haitians who were moved from an immigration
facility in Miami to the Brooklyn detention center, where they remain in
custody, the judge noted.

The eight petitioners contended that Charles C. Sava, the immigration district
director in New York, had abused his authority by refusing to parole them and
that his treatment of Haitian ''boat people'' was discriminatory.  In response,
the Government argued that the court lacked jurisdiction to review the parole
decisions, that Mr. Sava had properly exercised his discretion and that the
rights of the Haitians had not been violated.

Judge Carter found that ''these Haitian petitioners have been incarcerated in
substandard facilities for approximately eight months'' and that the case
focused on ''the perceived threat that petitioners would not return for
exclusion hearings if paroled.''

Instead of treating them on a case-by-case basis, Judge Carter said, the
evidence indicated that immigration service had treated the Haitian petitioners
as ''a group without individual characteristics.''

The judge said the ''statistical pattern'' of Mr. Sava's handling of parole
applications in his district indicated discrimination.  ''Of 86 Haitians whose
applciations he received,'' the judge said, ''Sava paroled five, all pregnant
women whose condition was an obvious compelling factor. Of 91 non-Haitian
applicants, 90 were released and the other returned to his country of origin
after withdrawing the parole request.''

A Deviation Is Seen

Judge Carter said it was clear that the immigration official had departed ''both
procedurally and substantively'' from his normal treatment of parole requests.

''The conclusion, therefore, is inescapale,'' he said, ''that Sava denied parole
to petitioners because they were black and/or because they were Haitians.''

He ordered that the petitioners be paroled or have ''reasonable conditions'' set
for their release within 10 days unless proof was provided that they might
abscond.

Judge Carter said he based the order on his finding that ''Sava failed to
exercise properly the discretion given him by the statutes and regulations
concerning the parole of excludable aliens'' and that he ''discriminated against
petitioners because of their race or national origin.'' Mr. Sava has said he
could not comment on the case while it was in the courts.

COUNTRY: HAITI (99%); UNITED STATES (94%);

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (79%);

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%);

COMPANY: ROBERT L SIGMON (58%);   IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE  (91%);
IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE (91%);

ORGANIZATION: IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE  (91%); IMMIGRATION &
NATURALIZATION SERVICE (91%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;HAITI; UNITED STATES  HAITI (99%); UNITED STATES (94%);   NEW YORK,
USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (79%);   NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%);

SUBJECT: DECISIONS AND VERDICTS; REFUGEES AND EXPATRIATES; IMMIGRATION AND
EMIGRATION; SUITS AND LITIGATION; DISCRIMINATION  LITIGATION (94%); IMMIGRATION
(92%); JUDGES (91%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%);
REFUGEES (90%); PETITIONS (90%); PAROLE (89%); DISCRIMINATION (88%);
JURISDICTION (78%); IMMIGRANT DETENTION CENTERS (78%); LAWYERS (78%); PUBLIC
POLICY (78%); JAIL SENTENCING (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (78%); VERDICTS
(78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); CLASS ACTIONS (77%); SUITS & CLAIMS (77%);
POLITICAL ASYLUM (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); NAVIES (71%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              191 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 March 5, 1982, Friday, Late City Final Edition

I.R.A. SUSPECT ESCAPES IN FRANCE

BYLINE: Reuters

SECTION: Section A; Page 3, Column 2; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 292 words

DATELINE: OTTAWA, March 4


Edward Howell, an Irish citizen charged by the United States with conspiring to
buy arms for the Irish Republican Army, escaped from his escort at Orly Airport
in Paris today while being deported to Ireland from Canada, Canadian officials
said.

The 34-year-old Mr. Howell, a member of Sinn Fenn, the I.R.A.'s legal political
arm, slipped away from the Canadian immigration officer escorting him after
asking to go to the bathroom, the officials here said.

''I understand he ran out of the airport pursued by the escort, hopped into a
cab and gave directions in French to the driver,'' an Immigration Department
official said.

Mr. Howell was ordered out of Canada because officials felt he could engage in
subversive activities. He had been sent to Canada after being freed on $10,000
bail in the United States, where he was arrested for illegal entry and taking
part in a plan to buy weapons.  American officials have said he must return to
the United States to face the charges against him.

Canadian officials said Mr. Howell did not, as far they knew, face any charges
other than those in the United States. They said they did not know why he
decided to escape rather than complete the journey to Ireland.

He left Toronto Wednesday night for Paris and was changing planes at Orly when
he escaped. He was accompanied by a Canadian official because of the seriousness
of the rule under which he was deported.

Mr. Howell was arrested two weeks ago with five other men at a border checkpoint
in Buffalo. United States authorities said they discovered $10,000 worth of
British currency in the men's luggage along with a shopping list for weapons and
ammunition.

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); CANADA (94%); IRELAND (94%); FRANCE (92%);

STATE: ONTARIO, CANADA (57%);

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (90%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (57%);

COMPANY: IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY  (91%); IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY (91%);

ORGANIZATION: IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY  (91%); IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY (91%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;IRELAND, NORTHERN; UNITED STATES  UNITED STATES (97%); CANADA
(94%); IRELAND (94%); FRANCE (92%);   ONTARIO, CANADA (57%);   PARIS, FRANCE
(90%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (57%);

SUBJECT: PRISONS AND PRISONERS; SMUGGLING; FIREARMS; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION

 IMMIGRATION (90%); DEPORTATION (90%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (78%); ARRESTS (78%);
SMUGGLING (78%); FIREARMS (72%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (71%); BAIL
(68%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              192 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 March 5, 1982, Friday, Late City Final Edition

SPORTS PEOPLE;
U.S. Eyes Valenzuela

SECTION: Section A; Page 21, Column 1; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 257 words


The United States Immigration and Nationalization Service says it is keeping a
close eye on the negotiations between the Los Angeles Dodgers and Fernando
Valenzuela, their star holdout. Valenzuela, a Mexican, has a permit allowing him
to stay in the United States to play baseball until the end of the season. What
if he doesn't play baseball? Said Jerry Sewell of the Immigration Service: ''If
he doesn't live up to the terms of his agreement, he'll have to return home. He
won't be treated any differently than anybody else.'' ...  J.R. Richard
continues to fare poorly in his comeback attempt with the Houston Astros.
Richard, who suffered a near-fatal stroke in 1980 and has not thrown well in two
15-minute workouts at the Astros' camp in recent days, is noticeably overweight
and has developed a sore shoulder. Tom Reich, his agent, said that the pitcher
had suffered from depression during the offseason and that his evident lack of
conditioning might be a result of it. ... Proceeds from an exhibition game
between the California Angels and the Oakland A's at Phoenix on March 17 will go
to a fund created to help Ken Boyer, the former player and manager who is being
treated for lung cancer in Mexico. A major backer of the fund is Billy Martin,
the Oakland manager. Meanwhile, the A's said that Eddie Mathews, their hitting
instructor, would enter a hospital in Phoenix this week for tests after a recent
physical examination disclosed a spot on his lung.

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%);

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%);

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (90%);

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES DODGERS  (91%); LOS ANGELES DODGERS (91%); HOUSTON ASTROS
(83%); HOUSTON ASTROS (83%); OAKLAND A'S (55%); CALIFORNIA ANGELS  (55%);
CALIFORNIA ANGELS (55%);

ORGANIZATION: LOS ANGELES DODGERS  (91%); LOS ANGELES DODGERS (91%); HOUSTON
ASTROS  (83%); HOUSTON ASTROS (83%); OAKLAND A'S (55%); CALIFORNIA ANGELS
(55%); CALIFORNIA ANGELS (55%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES  UNITED STATES (95%);   CALIFORNIA, USA (94%);   LOS
ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (90%);

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; PROFESSIONAL ATHLETICS; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION
IMMIGRATION (91%); BASEBALL (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (77%); EXERCISE &
FITNESS (73%); SPORTS & RECREATION (71%); SPORTS (71%); LUNG CANCER (65%);
CANCER (51%);

PERSON: ALFRED MANUEL 'BILLY' MARTIN  (54%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              193 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                March 2, 1982, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

SECTION: Section A; Page 4, Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 137 words


AROUND THE WORLD;
Last Western Reporters In Uganda Are Expelled

NAIROBI, Kenya, March 1 (AP) - The Ugandan Government expelled the last two
Western correspondents based in Kampala today without giving any reason, the
journalists said.

Trent O'Keefe, 26 years old, of Sydney, Australia, and Jack Ritchie, 24, of
Chicago, said they received letters signed by the acting principal immigration
officer, A.M. Kyafulumya, advising them that their entry permits had been
canceled and asking them to leave immediately. There was no comment from the
Ugandan Government.

Mr. O'Keefe had been in Uganda for the last two years working for the Australian
Broadcasting Commission, the BBC, and in recent months, several Western news
agencies including The Associated Press. Mr. Ritchie had been freelancing for
several newspapers.

INDUSTRY: SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (56%);

COUNTRY: KENYA (94%); AUSTRALIA (94%); UGANDA (93%);

STATE: NEW SOUTH WALES, AUSTRALIA (92%);

CITY: KAMPALA, UGANDA (90%); NAIROBI, KENYA (73%); SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (70%);

COMPANY: ASSOCIATED PRESS (56%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UGANDA; AUSTRALIA  KENYA (94%); AUSTRALIA (94%); UGANDA (93%);
NEW SOUTH WALES, AUSTRALIA (92%);   KAMPALA, UGANDA (90%); NAIROBI, KENYA (73%);

 SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (70%);

SUBJECT: UNITED STATE INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA;
INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION  JOURNALISM (90%); NEWS
REPORTING (88%); IMMIGRATION (86%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (73%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              194 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 March 1, 1982, Monday, Late City Final Edition

U.S. SAYS IT HAS BROKEN AN I.R.A. RING THAT CROSSED FROM CANADA TO BUY WEAPONS

BYLINE: By RICHARD D. LYONS, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1254 words

DATELINE: BUFFALO, Feb. 28


Federal immigration officials say they have broken an international munitions
conduit of the Irish Republican Army that had been sneaking its members into the
United States to buy arms for shipment to Dublin and Belfast for as long as
eight years.

In the last two months, seven men connected with the Provisional wing of the
I.R.A. have been arrested as they sought to cross from Canada to the United
States illegally by way of four bridges here and in Niagara Falls.

''It has taken more than a year of undercover work and investigations, but we
have broken this pipeline that stretched from Dublin through Amsterdam and
Toronto to Buffalo,'' said Benedict J.  Ferro, the local director of the
Immigration and Naturalization Service.

In the latest arrests, three weeks ago, five men were taken into custody at
Niagara Falls. Immigration inspectors attached to Operation Shamrock, as the
investigation was called, said they confiscated $10,000 in British currency and
a diary containing a ''shopping list'' for weapons. The cash and the diary were
in a car used by some of the men, the inspectors said.

Among the items being sought, according to the seized document, were nearly
200,000 rounds of ammunition that would fit machine guns, rifles and pistols
turned out by American, British, Czechoslovak and Soviet arsenals. Also sought
were electronic devices that could detonate bombs by remote control and small
remote-controlled aircraft capable of carrying 20 pounds of explosives as far as
five miles.

The diary contained the names of more than a dozen American companies that might
have been able to supply either the ammunition or the electronic gadgetry. Some
of the companies had offices as far away as Arizona and California. Federal
investigators have been seeking information that would tie sales from these
companies to the I.R.A. pipeline, if such purchases were in fact made.

The five men were arrested Feb. 6, while trying to cross the Whirlpool Rapids
Bridge at Niagara Falls. One of them was identified as 29-year-old Desmond
Ellis, who is being held in an Erie County jail and whose extradition is being
sought by Irish authorities.

James Quinn, a spokesman for the Garda, the Irish National Police, said in
Dublin that Mr. Ellis had posted bond of 25,000 Irish pounds, about $37,500,
late last year, pending an investigation into charges that he had violated
explosives laws, but had disappeared from his Dublin home early last month.

Mr. Ellis has been described by law-enforcement officials in Buffalo and Dublin
as an electronics expert familiar with devices used to detonate bombs.

Federal officials here have privately confirmed that meetings have been held in
the Ellis case here, in Washington and in Toronto, involving lawyers for the
State Department and the Justice Department, and officials of the Royal Canadian
Mounted Police and the Canadian Ministry of Justice.

The four other men arrested with Mr. Ellis, two of whom had been previously
convicted in either Canada or Ireland on munitions charges, were held for two
weeks, then sent back to Canada.

One of them, William Gilroy, 36, an Irish citizen living in St.  Catharines,
Ontario, declined to provide details about his political activities.

''It's a lot of sensationalism cooked up by the press,'' said Mr.  Gilroy, who
served a prison sentence in Canada on gun-running charges seven years ago.

Mr. Gilroy and another of those arrested, William O'Neill, 29, have been living
in a modest bungalow in a working-class district of St.  Catharines, a 30-minute
drive from the United States border.

Irish Supporters Put Up Bond

Mr. Gilroy, Mr. O'Neill and James Kelly, another Irish citizen living in St.
Catharines who was arrested at the time, have been released on $5,000 bond
pending a hearing on charges that they sought to smuggle aliens into the United
States. As has happened in the past, the bond was put up by Irish people living
in the United States.

A fourth man, Edward Howell, 34, of Belfast, posted $10,000 bail and was
deported last week. He is being held in a Canadian jail, leaving Mr. Ellis as
the only one in custody in the United States.

Robert Murphy, attorney for Mr. Ellis, is seeking to have him released from a
holding cell here and to obtain political asylum for him. Mr. Murphy has refused
to discuss the case publicly.

Mr. Ferro, the local Immigration Service director, said the investigation of
suspected I.R.A. activities in the United States had been spurred by the
discovery two years ago of evidence indicating a supply line.

Border Crossings Noted

Mr. Ferro said one bit of evidence was the telephone number of an I.R.A. ''safe
house'' in the Toronto suburb of Mississagua, written on a piece of paper
carried by Kiernan Nugent, an I.R.A. official arrested in New York City in 1980.

The house was put under surveillance, and it was found that people and
automobiles arriving there were crossing the United States border regularly, he
said.

About five years ago the Immigration Service began encoding in a computer bank
the license numbers of all cars entering the United States. Mr. Ferro said an
interpretation of the patterns indicated that the I.R.A. was regularly sending
people across the bridges here and in Niagara Falls.

''In a typical case, we found a car with a certain Ontario registration had
tried to enter the United States at the check point on the Peace Bridge, and
been refused entry by a suspicious inspector,'' Mr. Ferro said.

''Yet the computer printout showed that half an hour later the same car was
admitted at the Whirlpool Rapids Bridge,'' he added.

Thorough Checks Impossible

Tens of thousands of cars cross the four bridges daily, and it is almost
impossible to make a thorough check on even a fraction of them and their
occupants.

An Irish citizen must have a visa to enter the United States, but if challenged
at the bridges he could state that he was unaware of that requirement. In that
case the Immigration inspector is supposed to deny entry, saying that a visa
must be obtained at the United States Embassy in Ottawa or the consulate in
Toronto.

''If challenged and rejected they would then try the same tactic at another
bridge,'' Mr. Ferro said, adding that with computer-aided identification it was
becoming much more difficult to gain entry with this tactic.

Mr. Ferro and other Federal officials said the I.R.A. was using the auto bridges
because airlines offering direct service from Europe demanded proof that the
necessary visa had been obtained.

Others Arrested

''It was easier to cross the border here, plus the fact that it was then a
simple matter to either take a plane from Buffalo to New York City - the center
of I.R.A. sympathies in the United States - or drive there by car,'' Mr. Ferro
added.

In addition to the five arrested earlier this month, two men were caught trying
to cross the border here in January, also carrying fraudulent papers.

Last year half a dozen other people identified as I.R.A. members were picked up
at the border or in New York or Pittsburgh. Federal officials said they
suspected that crossings of the border here had been going on for as long as
eight years.

COUNTRY: CANADA (97%); UNITED STATES (97%); IRELAND (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%);

 NORTH AMERICA (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (73%);

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); ONTARIO, CANADA (88%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%);

CITY: BUFFALO, NY, USA (93%); DUBLIN, IRELAND (92%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (88%);
BELFAST, NORTHERN IRELAND (73%);

COMPANY: ROYAL CANADIAN MINT (50%);   IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY  (91%); IRISH
REPUBLICAN ARMY (91%);

ORGANIZATION: IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY  (91%); IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY (91%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;IRELAND, NORTHERN; UNITED STATES; CANADA  CANADA (97%); UNITED
STATES (97%); IRELAND (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); NORTHERN
IRELAND (73%);   NEW YORK, USA (93%); ONTARIO, CANADA (88%); CALIFORNIA, USA
(79%);   BUFFALO, NY, USA (93%); DUBLIN, IRELAND (92%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA
(88%); BELFAST, NORTHERN IRELAND (73%);

SUBJECT: FIREARMS; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; SMUGGLING  IMMIGRATION (93%);
ARMS TRADE (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); FIREARMS

 (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); ARRESTS (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); BOMBS &
EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%);
SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); EXPLOSIVES (86%); EXTRADITION (79%); POLICE
FORCES (78%); SMUGGLING (77%); BAIL (71%); LAWYERS (60%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              195 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 28, 1982, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

83 HAITIANS IN BROOKLYN STILL FIGHT FOR ASYLUM

BYLINE: By LAURIE JOHNSTON

SECTION: Section 1; Part 2; Page 45, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 713 words


Sixty-eight Haitian ''boat people'' detained for the last seven months in a
former Navy brig in Brooklyn are still engaged in a legal battle for political
asylum.

Their fight continues despite decisions against all of them by the State
Department - in ''advisory recommendations'' - and against 33 thus far by the
Immigration and Naturalization Service. Appeals on behalf of the latter group
have already been filed by volunteer lawyers.

A related habeas corpus suit, aimed at getting the Haitians ''paroled'' to
sponsors pending final settlement of their immigration status awaits a decision
by Judge Robert L. Carter in Federal District Court Manhattan.

The suit, brought by lawyers for eight of the group, is the first legal test of
the Reagan Administration's policy -enunciated by Attorney General William
French Smith - of locking up Haitian ''boat people'' during exclusion
proceedings.

The 34 women and 34 men, most of them rural people, have not been outdoors,
except for a rare trip in manacles to a doctor or to disciplinary quarters,
since they arrived July 18 at the immigration agency's detention center in the
former Brooklyn Navy Yard. The former brig in which they have been detained has
no exercise area, indoors or out.

15 From Upstate Join Group

Earlier this month, 15 Haitians held at the Federal prison in Otisville, N.Y.,
were bused to the Brooklyn detention center to join their compatriots. They were
interviewed - in English, halting French and the Creole dialect of Haiti -by
volunteer lawyers who had obtained a Federal Court order staying their forced
return to Haiti.

The group in Brooklyn prior to last week had been transferred from Florida
detention centers and originally totaled 86. Thirteen have given up the legal
fight and were deported to Haiti and five women were paroled to relatives in
this country because of advanced pregnancy or miscarriages.

By recent count, 2,850 Haitians are being held in detention centers or Federal
prisons in various states, including about 300 in upstate New York. They are
classified by the State Department as economic migrants, rather than as
political refugees.

A 25-year-old detainee said last week that the physical and mental health of the
Brooklyn group was deteriorating with close confinement and inactivity. He said
that the Haitians rarely got such foods of their choice as rice, beans and
bananas and that they ''feel themselves weakening'' physically.

'They Are Genuinely Fearful'

''Only out of fear would anybody in their right minds continue to put up with
the hell they're put through,'' said Michael Hooper, director of the Haitian
Project of the Lawyers Committee for International Human Rights as he supervised
interviews with the arrivals from Otisville in Orange County. ''They are
genuinely fearful of what will happen if they go back.''

The committee acts as coordinator for 35 volunteer lawyers representing the
Brooklyn detainees in the immigration agency's exclusion proceedings and in the
Federal Court case. They are drawn from such public-interest groups as Columbia
University Law School's immigration law clinic, the New York Civil Liberties
Union and Brooklyn Legal Services.

The suit seeking parole of the Haitians points out that none of them has a
criminal record and that all have obtained sponsorship, mainly from church
organizations.

In an earlier suit, the N.Y.C.L.U. had sought to have the detention center
closed on the grounds that it was overcrowded and that its acknowledged purpose
was as a temporary facility.

Charles Sava, the immigration agency's district director, said that he could not
comment on either the detention facility or the legal cases as long as the
Federal Court suit and 35 of the exclusion proceedings were still in litigation.

Thomas H. Belote, an assistant United States attorney, said he would not try to
''summarize'' his case for the news media.  ''That is my policy, not just with
regard to the Haitians but to a number of the terrorist cases,'' Mr. Belote
said.

COUNTRY: HAITI (98%); UNITED STATES (94%);

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (79%);

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%);

COMPANY: ROBERT L SIGMON (57%);   IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE  (57%);
IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE (57%);

ORGANIZATION: IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE  (57%); IMMIGRATION &
NATURALIZATION SERVICE (57%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;BROOKLYN (NYC); UNITED STATES; HAITI; NEW YORK STATE  HAITI (98%);
UNITED STATES (94%);   NEW YORK, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (79%);   NEW YORK, NY,
USA (94%);

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; PRISONS AND PRISONERS; SUITS AND LITIGATION

 IMMIGRATION (92%); POLITICAL ASYLUM (92%); LAWYERS (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW
(90%); IMMIGRANT DETENTION CENTERS (89%); PAROLE (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS
(89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); PRISONS (87%); REFUGEES
(78%); HABEAS CORPUS (78%); DEPORTATION (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%);
NAVIES (73%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (71%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (71%); HUMAN RIGHTS
(71%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (70%); MISCARRIAGES (50%);

PERSON: WILLIAM FRENCH SMITH  (56%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              196 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              February 27, 1982, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

NEW PROPOSAL ON ALIENS WOULD FINE EMPLOYERS

BYLINE: By PAUL L. MONTGOMERY

SECTION: Section 1; Page 21, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 746 words


The bipartisan bill for immigration law reform to be introduced in Congress next
month calls for fines and other penalties for employers of illegal aliens and
would provide for a national system to verify the citizenship of employees, one
of the bill's proponents said yesterday.

Senator Alan K. Simpson, Republican of Wyoming, chairman of the Subcommittee on
Immigration and Refugee Policy, told a group of officials concerned with the
issue that immigration into the United States was ''out of control'' and that
the new measures were needed.  He said in his talk at the Harley Hotel in
Manhattan that he and his counterpart in the House, Representative Romano L.
Mazzoli, Democrat of Kentucky, were distributing a 600-page information packet
on the changes they are proposing, and that they would introduce their bill on
March 10.

The provisions outlined by Senator Simpson in his address echoed many of those
proposed by President Reagan last month and in some cases were more strict. The
bill is the most comprehensive, and one of the most stringent, proposed since
the last major revision of immigration laws in 1965. Senator Simpson said he
would make it his ''highest priority'' to get the bill passed this year.

One of the 'National Heritages'

''Controlled immigration is one of our greatest national heritages,'' said the
Senator. ''Uncontrolled immigration is one of the most serious threats to our
society.''

Senator Simpson said the bill contained these provisions:

- After a one-year moratorium, employers who knowingly hired illegal aliens
would be fined $1,000 on the first offense and $2,000 on the second offense.
Recruiters of illegal aliens would get stiffer penalties.

- All employees would have to show through documents when they applied for a job
that they were citizens or in immigration categories that allowed them to work.

- Aliens in the United States illegally who arrived before Jan. 1, 1980, could
have their status legalized, but those arriving subsequently without documents
would be summarily excluded and deported.

- It would grant permission for interdiction of ships suspected of carrying
illegal aliens.

- Brothers and sisters of United States citizens or legal residents, now given a
preference in immigration quotas from each country, would no longer get
preferential treatment. Parents and children would continue to receive it.

- A $5 charge for a nonimmigrant visa, which is now free. About seven million
were issued last year. The money would go to the Immigration and Naturalization
Service, which Senator Simpson said was ''in tatters.''

The bill contains no provision for the temporary worker program proposed by
President Reagan, Senator Simpson said, but it would provide that occupations in
which there is a shortage of workers in the United States could have positions
filled by immigrants.

The Senator spoke at a luncheon attended by officials of foundations, labor
unions and other organizations concerned with immigration. The luncheon was
sponsored by the Federation for American Immigration Reform and the Economic
Policy Council of the United Nations Association, which released a report last
month on illegal immigration.

Senator Simpson said the bill would keep immigration to the United States at
about the present level of 425,000 a year, although the quotas for Mexico and
Canada would be raised from 20,000 to 40,000 each. Total immigration to the
United States last year, including political refugees, was about 800,000, he
said. He said that figure was more than the immigration in all the rest of the
world.

The Senator said that the bill, coming at the end of six years of study by
various commissions, should provoke extensive debate about the view of the
future American society embodied in it. Senator Simpson said that in his view
assimilation rather than ''biculturalism'' should be the aim of policy.

The Senator said that in the committee hearings he had attended on the issue
over the last three years he had noticed a growing ''compassion fatigue'' even
among the strongest proponents of an open immigration policy.

''We live in a world of limits,'' he said. ''Tragically, there even have to be
limits on our compassion.''

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%);

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%);

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES  UNITED STATES (95%);   NEW YORK, USA (79%);   NEW
YORK, NY, USA (79%);

SUBJECT: LAW AND LEGISLATION; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; ILLEGAL ALIENS; FINES
(PENALTIES)  LEGISLATION (94%); IMMIGRATION (93%); IMMIGRATION LAW (93%);
ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); FINES & PENALTIES (90%);
CRIMINAL FINES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%);
PASSPORTS & VISAS (78%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); US
PRESIDENTS (76%); LABOR SHORTAGES (73%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (73%); LABOR
UNIONS (73%); REFUGEES (73%);

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (83%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              197 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

             February 24, 1982, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

THE REGION;
Irish Nationalist Led Into Canada

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section B; Page 2, Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 91 words

DATELINE: NIAGARA FALLS, N.Y.


One of five Irish nationalists arrested on Feb. 6 on charges of illegally trying
to enter the United States from Canada was freed on $10,000 bail and escorted
back across the border.

The man, 34-year-old Edward Howell of Belfast, was escorted across the Whirlpool
Bridge by United States immigration authorities and taken into a Canadian
customs building, where he was temporarily detained. Canadian immigration
officials then took him to the Hamilton-Wentworth Detention Center at Hamilton,
Ontario.

COUNTRY: CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); NORTHERN IRELAND (90%); IRELAND
(79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%);

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (76%);

CITY: BELFAST, NORTHERN IRELAND (90%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;BELFAST (NORTHERN IRELAND); IRELAND, REPUBLIC OF; UNITED STATES;
CANADA  CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); NORTHERN IRELAND (90%); IRELAND
(79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%);   NEW YORK, USA (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (76%);
BELFAST, NORTHERN IRELAND (90%);

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; ILLEGAL ALIENS  IMMIGRATION (91%); BAIL
(90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (87%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              198 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              February 23, 1982, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

Immigration Chief Sworn In

BYLINE: UPI

SECTION: Section A; Page 17, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 78 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 22


Alan Nelson was sworn in today as head of the Immigration and Naturalization
Service, becoming the agency's first permanent director in two and a half years.
Attorney General William French Smith administered the oath to Mr. Nelson, a
former lawyer for the Pacific Telephone and Telegraph Company in San Francisco.
Mr. Nelson is the first permanent commissioner of the service since October
1979, when Leonel J. Castillo resigned.

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%);

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%);

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (52%);

COMPANY: IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE  (91%); IMMIGRATION &
NATURALIZATION SERVICE (91%);

ORGANIZATION: IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE  (91%); IMMIGRATION &
NATURALIZATION SERVICE (91%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES  UNITED STATES (92%);   CALIFORNIA, USA (92%);   SAN
FRANCISCO, CA, USA (52%);

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION;
APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES  IMMIGRATION (92%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (90%);
ATTORNEYS GENERAL (87%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (87%);

PERSON: WILLIAM FRENCH SMITH  (73%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              199 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 21, 1982, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

NEW CURBS ON ENTRY INTO U.S. ANGER FILIPINOS

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times MANILA, Feb. 20 - For Filipinos, getting a
tourist visa to the United States cna take weeks and involve documents about
one's financ

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 15, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 660 words


The screening, put into practice because illegal immigration has become a
serious problem, is aimed at determing whether the applicant is a geniune
tourist who will return home.  Despite the screening, hundreds of Filipinos on
temporary visas disappear upon reaching the United States.

American efforts to halt such practices have led in recent weeks to a complaint
by the Philippine Government over the treatment of its citizens at United States
points of entry.  A letter of protest sent through the United States Embassy
here to the State Department by Foreign Minister Carlos P. Romulo has demanded
an explanation for the "discriminatory acts committed by United States
immigration and customs officials."

A number of Filipinos, including several politicians and businessmen, have
complained that they were treated as if they were criminals at United States
ports.  Several told the National Assembly that they were harassed, searched and
interrogated, even though some of them carried diplomatic passports.

"Such a breach constitutes an affront to the dignity and honor of our country,"
said Juan R. Liwag, an assemblyman who after two hours in line in Honolulu
immigraiton was interrogated about his diplomatic passport and mission while
returning to Manila from Havana last September.

Many Filipinos regard the issue as an international incident.  A resolution
adopted by the Assembly said "incidents of this nature could lead to the
deterioration of Philippine-United States relations."

Filipinos are very sensitive to any nuance in American behavior that might
affect their preferred status with the United States.  The Phillipines still
enjoys special privileges as a result of its 50 years as an American colony.

The presence of United States military bases on Philippine soil has meant
millions of dollars for this country's economy.  Thousands of Filipinos receive
social security and veterans' benefits in recognition of their military service
in World War II.  In addition, 35,000 Filipinos are allowed to immigrate to the
United States every year.

A special category alllows 15,000 immigrants above the regular 20,000 quota, to
include spouses, parents and children of United States citizens. More than
300,000 Filipinos are waiting to emigrate to the United States; 175,000 of them
are brothers and sisters of United States citizens.

Every morning there are long lines outside the United States Embassy. In
addition to the 35,000 allowed to immigrate this year, the embassy is expected
to grant more than 80,000 tourist or student visas.  Although figures for past
years are not available, it is expected that more than 10 percent of those
Filipinos on temporary visas will not return.

With a weak economy in this country, thousands of Filipinos have been trying to
enter the United States, where more than a million Filipinos now live.  Many who
are unable to get official documents try to enter the United States with false
passports and visas.

Filipino immigration into the United States has been easier to regulate than the
influx of illegal aliens from Mexico or the Carribean, primarily because the
immigrants arrive by plane, usually through major ports of entry in Honolulu,
San Francisco and Los Angeles.

When Ambassador Luz del Mundo returned to Manila through Los Angeles last year
from the economic summit conference held in Cancun, Mexico, she said, she was
confronted by questioning that seemed to suggest she might be lying.  She said
that when she told the questioners she had been to the Cancun meeting, the
response was, "So what?"

Mr. Liwag, in his statement to the Assembly, said: "To ignore the affront would
be to invite similar transgressions in the future.  That can only place added
strains on Philippine-American relations."

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); PHILIPPINES (99%);

STATE: HAWAII, USA (79%);

CITY: HONOLULU, HI, USA (79%); MANILA, PHILIPPINES (79%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; PHILIPPINES, REPUBLIC OF THE  UNITED STATES (99%);
PHILIPPINES (99%);   HAWAII, USA (79%);   HONOLULU, HI, USA (79%); MANILA,
PHILIPPINES (79%);

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; UNITED STATE INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS
IMMIGRATION (93%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); STATE
DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (89%); ILLEGAL
IMMIGRANTS (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (77%); VETERANS
(67%); MILITARY BENEFITS (63%); WORLD WAR II (63%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              200 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 21, 1982, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

A STATE OF LIMBO RULES THE LIVES OF POLISH ALIENS

BYLINE: BY SAMUEL G. FREEDMAN

SECTION: Section 11; Connecticut; Page 1, Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1496 words

DATELINE: NEW BRITAIN


WHEN the immigration agents approached Helena shouting, ''Polish?  Polish?'' she
felt no surprise, only the confirmation of her worst fears. She knew she
possessed neither the valid visa nor the work permit - for her $64-a-week job
cleaning offices - that the agents wanted to see. ''There was a risk,'' the
40-year-old former bookkeeper said of her Oct. 21, 1981 arrest here. ''I just
took it.''

Deportation proceedings against Helena, who asked that her full name not be
used, began Dec. 22 - even though military law had been declared in Poland nine
days earlier. The proceedings will continue although the Reagan Administration,
in the wake of the recent events in Poland, has barred the actual expulsion of
illegal Polish aliens until March 31.

It is a strange sort of deliverance, Helena said; military rule, the very act
that saves her from the possibility of a forcible return to Poland, makes her
dread it even more. She feels, she said, that she has no country.

Helena's sense of limbo is shared by about a thousand illegal Polish aliens
living, working and often hiding, in Connecticut, according to Ryszard S.
Mrotek, a Hartford lawyer who specializes in immigration cases. Estimates of
their number nationwide range from 20,000, according to Aloysius A. Mazewski,
president of the Polish-American Congress, to 35,000, according to Richard W.
Day, general counsel of the United States Senate Subcommittee on Immigration,
Refugees and International Law.

Some 5,300 Poles nationwide currently are involved in ''expulsion proceedings,''
including detainment, deportation hearings, decisions on requests for asylum and
denial of entry to the country, according to Duane Austin, an information
officer for the United States Immigration and Naturalization Service. He added
that many of the illegal aliens also break labor, Social Security and tax laws
by working ''off-the-books'' jobs - those that are not reported to Government
officials.

Most Polish aliens first enter the United States on tourist visas, which last no
more than six months, said immigration officials and Polish-American advocates.
They generally live with relatives in the Polish enclaves of New Britain,
Hartford, Stratford and large towns in Connecticut, although the greatest
numbers are found in Chicago, Detroit and Pittsburgh. They work in relatively
menial jobs - machine shops for men, garment factories or building maintenance
for women - although the Poles range from unskilled workers to those with
advanced degrees but no fluency in English. Most limit their movements to the
passage from home to job, trying to avoid the periodic roundups made by
immigration agents.

A suit brought by the Connecticut Civil Liberties Union, now in the pretrial
stages in Federal District Court in Hartford, seeks an injunction against the
''random'' raids.

''Our people live like hunted game,'' contended Mr. Mrotek, a naturalized Pole.
''You stay as close as possible to the family, don't socialize much, don't talk
at work, hide behind someone else's Social Security card, don't get a driver's
license.''

The situation for Polish aliens changed significantly when Congress passed the
Refugee Act of 1981. Until then, immigrants from Communist countries
automatically received the status of refugees, allowing the influx of Poles and
Soviet Jews in particular, Mr. Day said.

The new law, adopting verbatim the wording of a United Nations protocol, altered
the definition of a refugee to a person with ''a well-founded fear of
persecution, based on race, religion, national origin, or membership in any
social organization.''

The definition appears to exclude most Polish aliens, Mr. Day said, because they
came to the United States for economic gain.  ''What we hear about are food
shortages, fuel shortages,'' he said, ''not political reasons.'' But Polish
aliens rarely extricate the shortages from the Communist government that
presides over the economy.

The existence of Solidarity further complicated the issue.  Immigration
officials and lawmakers had pointed to the ascension of the independent trade
union as proof of the absence of mass persecution in Poland, and deportations of
illegal immigrants continued until the Dec. 13 declaration of martial law. On
that day President Reagan ordered deportations halted, and the immigration
service on Jan. 22 said no Poles would be returned home until at least March 31.

But expulsion hearings that began before Dec. 13 continue and the State
Department has ''temporarily suspended consideration'' of requests for asylum,
according to a letter to Mr. Mrotek from John D. Scanlan, deputy assistant
secretary for European affairs. A blanket amnesty for Polish immigrants ''would
be inconsistent with the Refugee Act,'' Mr. Scanlan wrote.

Senator Alan K. Simpson, a Republican of Wyoming who is chairman of the Senate
immigration committee, said, ''We have to be very cautious about any broadening
of the definition of 'refugee,' '' because, besides the Poles, thousands of
Haitian and Salvadoran immigrants claim to have fled political persecution. He
reiterated the wording from the Refugee Act, but then added, ''How do you deal
with plain old fear?''

Mr. Simpson did not answer his own question. But Betty, a 32-yearold Polish
alien living in Greenwich, could. She has lived ''underground'' - her word - for
the seven years since her six-week tourist visa expired.

''I was simply hiding,'' she said. ''I couldn't take a job I'd like to, like an
office job or nursing. I didn't get a driver's license.  I opened a savings
account in my cousin's name.''

Betty said she tried several times to attain legal status, paying $1,000 to a
lawyer who did not succeed in doing so, and seeking advice from Polish-American
organizations. ''They told me, 'Immigration isn't looking for you, sit quiet,'
'' she recalled.

But her conscience troubled her. Twice she bought airline tickets to Poland,
only to return them. ''I feel very guilty about not paying taxes,'' she said,
''but I spend all my money here. I paid lawyers, I paid doctors, I was in the
hospital and paid all my bills.''

She misses her family and blames herself because, she said, since her flight
from Poland, her brother has been denied the right to work in Czechoslovakia and
her father has been interrogated frequently by Polish officials.

Betty's mother, however, received a visa in December 1981 to visit Betty's aunt
in Stamford. Then martial law was declared. Betty's mother wants to return home.
Betty's aunt wants the 57-year-old woman to stay. Her visa expires this month.

Barbara, 29, a Polish immigrant in Hartford, also feels torn between family and
freedom. She left her husband and children in Warsaw in June 1981 with the
promise, ''See you in three months.'' Now she fears that returning to Poland
means imprisonment because she had been a Solidarity organizer.

''I keep myself very busy,'' she said, ''or else I would go crazy.'' But work
and her studies in computer science are not diversion enough. The strain of
separation shows in the 15 pounds she has lost, the cigarettes she never before
smoked.

One night recently, Barbara watched the movie, ''Man of Iron,'' which mixes a
fictional plot with documentary footage of the Gdansk shipyard strike that gave
birth to Solidarity.

''I feel how can this possibly be, that if I was there I would be in jail for my
ideology,'' she said after the film. As the final credits slid off the screen,
she looked at the spectators departing, and said: ''American people are nice,
but they never can feel the same thing. It's not my country here. It never will
be. I'm a stranger here.''

Barbara's problems, however, remain more emotional than legal. Her student visa
and her affiliation with Solidarity - probably a boon in proving a
''well-founded fear of persecution'' and thus gaining asylum - are luxuries few
other Polish aliens share.

Consider a 28-year-old seamstress in New Britain, who did not want to be
identified. As she sat in her brother's apartment - legs drawn into her chest
and locked into a defensive cocoon by linked arms - she told of the day of her
arrest last June.

Three immigration agents came to her sewing machine in a New Britain factory,
asking for her papers. She told them through an interpreter that she had a
working permit and had applied for permanent residence, but did not have the
documents with her.

The agents put her in their car. She thought they were taking her directly to
the airport to be sent home. She went, in fact, to the Hartford immigration
office for fingerprinting and mug shots, and then to the Connecticut Women's
Correctional Institution in Niantic.  There she was held over night.

Her case remains in an immigration court. She contends that she has a valid work
permit; immigration officials contend that she does not.  ''I can't go to Poland
and I don't know if I can stay here,'' she said. ''The only choice is to look
for another country.''

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); POLAND (93%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%);

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%);

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (93%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (79%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;POLAND; UNITED STATES  UNITED STATES (95%); POLAND (93%); CENTRAL
EUROPE (73%);   CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%);   HARTFORD, CT,
USA (93%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (79%);

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION  IMMIGRATION (91%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (90%);

 MILITARY & VETERANS LAW (90%); DEPORTATION (90%); LITIGATION (89%); ILLEGAL
IMMIGRANTS (89%); IMMIGRATION LAW (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICAL
ASYLUM (78%); GARMENT WORKERS (77%); LAWYERS (74%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (74%); US
PRESIDENTS (74%); REFUGEES (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); LAW COURTS &
TRIBUNALS (70%); INJUNCTIONS (70%); SOCIAL SECURITY (69%); TAX LAW (69%); HUMAN
RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (69%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (65%);
SUITS & CLAIMS (64%); APPAREL MFG (50%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: photo of an unidentified Polish alien

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              201 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              February 20, 1982, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

JUDGE POSTPONES DECISION ON PLEA OF AFGHANS DETAINED IN CALIFORNIA

BYLINE: By WALLACE TURNER, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 21, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 958 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Feb. 19


At least six more weeks of indecision stretched before a group of Afghan
refugees today when an administrative law judge put off hearings on their
applications for political asylum.

The hearing today was on an appeal of a decision made Wednesday by David
Ilchert, regional director for the Immigration and Naturalization Service. Mr.
Ilchert, in denying the Afghans' application, said that they used tricks to get
into the United States without papers on Jan. 7.

Of the 29 refugees, one turned out to have proper documents. Judge Bernard
Hornback then questioned each of the others, through an interpreter, and
assigned hearing dates beginning in 45 days.

Meantime, Mr. Ilchert has defended his decision.

Concern for 'Viability of System'

''There are hundreds of thousands of Afghanstanis around the world watching,''
Mr. Ilchert said Thursday. ''This was well orchestrated.  This is not 29 people
from the same family. My feeling is that if you allow this to happen, if this
package goes down, you will destroy the viability of the system, and that's why
I denied the application.''

He said the group, now housed at a onetime airfield in Marin County, had arrived
aboard a Japan Air Lines flight that they had boarded by using counterfeit
passports and visas. Airline tickets were bought in Madras, India. He said that
between Tokyo and San Francisco, the last leg of the trip, the Afghans destroyed
all their travel documents.

''They were not going to have any documents on them that would help the United
States to identify them and might help the United States to remove them to
another country,'' Mr. Ilchert said.

''Finally, after long and arduous hours of questioning, they admitted they were
from Afghanistan and made application for political refugee status. They finally
broke down and told the story.''

Mr. Ilchert said that application for political asylum had been made for all of
the group at New Delhi, but that their chances of getting into the United States
were slim because the Middle East quota for this year was only 5,000.

''These people figured they'd never qualify as refugees,'' Mr.  Ilchert
asserted. ''They thought they'd never get a number.''

Priority for Scientists

Priority is given to scientists and government officials, then to relatives of
American residents.  Aid to Afghan Refugees, a group organized two years ago by
former Peace Corps workers in Afghanistan, arranged for a San Francisco law firm
to represent the refugees at the hearing today.

''We will be backing them,'' said John Schaecher, one of the founders of the aid
group.  There are nine children and 20 adults in the group living five to a room
in World War II military barracks at the airfield, where Cambodians, Laotians
and Vietnamese awaiting resettlement also live.  Children of all the groups
played together on swings and slides Thursday while the adult Afghans discussed
their plight with reporters.

Kahin Azad, 29 years old, who said his father ran a business selling trucks and
rifles in Kabul before he was killed by the Afghan Government, declared: ''If I
am sent back, I will go to lie next to my father. I came here because I heard
there was democracy and human rights in America.''

He said he and the others had paid $100 each in Peshawar, Pakistan, for their
counterfeit travel documents. A Sunni Moslem, he said he walked out of
Afghanistan wearing a turban and tribal clothing.

Mahbooba Omar, 23, who said she is seven months pregnant, said she had been a
stewardess with the Afghanistani airline but was forced to quit by pressure to
join the Communist Party.

'They Will Kill Us'

''If we go back to Afghanistan, first we will go to jail and second they will
kill us,'' she said, with Mr. Azad interpreting.  ''They may as well take my
body here,'' said Azizullah Alemzay, 27, who was a government clerk for eight
years. ''It is better to die here than to be taken by Russian machine guns.''

Dr. Gollabuddin Jamal, 47, father of five children in the group, said he left
his medical practice ''because our lives were in danger.''

''I didn't want my children to become Communists,'' he added.  Mr. Ilchert said:
''We'll make every effort to find a country to take them. If the only country
that will take them is Afghanistan, then of course we'll permit them to remain
here pending a change in the situation in Afghanistan.''

Airline Paying for Food

Meantime, until their status is clarified, Japan Air Lines pays for their food.
Because they arrived on a Friday and could not get a hearing until Monday, the
airline spent $6,000 keeping them in a hotel. Now they live rent free in the
barracks, but their food costs about $500 a day, a spokesman for the airline
said.

The refugees said they had been getting Vietnamese food, which they disliked.
One night they got hamburgers from McDonald's, which they thought tasted like
their traditional kebabs.

Mr. Schaecher of Aid to Afghan Refugees said he hoped the plight of this group
would focus attention on ''what's happening in Afghanistan.''

''There's poison gas, and we've heard of a substance put in the dust that eats
away the flesh on the feet of people who walk through the dust,'' he continued.

''The Russians are going to overcome these people by any means possible. Anybody
who was outraged about Vietnam must be equally outraged about this.''

TICKER: DTV (NASDAQ) (91%);

INDUSTRY: NAICS517410 SATELLITE TELECOMMUNICATIONS (91%); NAICS517110 WIRED
TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (91%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION
PROGRAMMING (91%);

COUNTRY: AFGHANISTAN (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); INDIA (92%); JAPAN (79%);
MIDDLE EAST (79%);

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%);

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (93%); NEW DELHI, INDIA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY
AREA, CA, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (75%);

COMPANY: JAPAN AIR LINES CO LTD (55%);   IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE
(58%); IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE (58%);

ORGANIZATION: IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE  (58%); IMMIGRATION &
NATURALIZATION SERVICE (58%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;AFGHANISTAN; CALIFORNIA; UNITED STATES  AFGHANISTAN (97%); UNITED
STATES (96%); INDIA (92%); JAPAN (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%);   CALIFORNIA, USA
(94%);   SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (93%); NEW DELHI, INDIA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY
AREA, CA, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (75%);

SUBJECT: REFUGEES AND EXPATRIATES; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION  REFUGEES (92%);
IMMIGRATION (90%); JUDGES (90%); NATURALIZATION (90%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (90%);
POLITICAL ASYLUM (90%); AIRPORTS (87%); AGENCY ADJUDICATION (78%);
ADMINISTRATIVE LAW JUDGES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); CITIZENSHIP (77%);

 LAWYERS (74%); COUNTERFEITING (70%); TRAVEL TICKETS (66%); WORLD WAR II (60%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              202 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              February 20, 1982, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

3 I.R.A. Supporters Deported To Canada by U.S. Officials

BYLINE: Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 24, Column 6; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 90 words

DATELINE: BUFFALO, Saturday, Feb. 20


Three of the five Irish Republican Army supporters arrested at Niagara Falls,
N.Y., on Feb. 6 for illegally entering the United States were deported to Canada
late Friday by the Immigration and Naturalization Service without a hearing, the
agency said.

The three, who are former residents of Belfast and who have landedimmigrant
status in Canada, are William O'Neill, 29 years old, James Kelly, 41, and
William Gilroy, 36. They had been charged with entering the United States to
obtain guns for the I.R.A.

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (94%); IRELAND (78%); NORTHERN IRELAND
(73%);

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%);

CITY: BUFFALO, NY, USA (79%); BELFAST, NORTHERN IRELAND (73%);

COMPANY: IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY  (91%); IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY (91%);

ORGANIZATION: IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY  (91%); IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY (91%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;IRELAND, NORTHERN; UNITED STATES  UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA
(94%); IRELAND (78%); NORTHERN IRELAND (73%);   NEW YORK, USA (92%);   BUFFALO,
NY, USA (79%); BELFAST, NORTHERN IRELAND (73%);

SUBJECT: DEPORTATION; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION  DEPORTATION (93%); IMMIGRATION

 (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%);

PERSON: JAMES T KELLY (57%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              203 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              February 18, 1982, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

BRIEFING

BYLINE: By Francis X. Clines and Bernard Weinraub

SECTION: Section D; Page 19, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 812 words


Immigration Limit

A major effort to overhaul the nation's immigration policy is scheduled to be
unveiled next week by Senator Alan K. Simpson. Mr.  Simpson, Republican of
Wyoming, is chairman of the influential Senate panel on immigration and refugee
policy, and his proposals are expected to carry considerable weight in Congress
and within the Administration.

Immigration officials say that the Simpson proposals include a limit on legal
immigration to about 450,000, as against 800,000 last year. This would not
include refugees, such as the ''boat people'' from Southeast Asia. Beyond this,
Senator Simpson's measure seeks to curb illegal immigration which, according to
Administration estimates, runs as high as 2.5 million people a year, of whom
500,000 permanently settle in the United States.

Mr. Simpson's proposals are expected to include increased enforcement against
illegal immigrants, sanctions against employers who hire the aliens and the
possible creation of a ''work authorization'' card.

The proposals are, according to immigration specialists, far more embracing than
an Administration package announced last summer.  Conservatives are expected to
oppose a proposal to grant an amnesty to illegal aliens, while liberals would
probably fight a proposal to allow so-called guest workers, mostly Mexicans,
into the country.
Selling the Budget

I n those dear, dead pre-supply-side days, the Office of Management and Budget
would trickle down numerous documents to the truly needy but oh-so-influential
members of the various budget committees on Capitol Hill. It was perfectly
natural for the Congressmen to assume that the documents were like the best
things in life: free.

No more.  To their amazement, the members of the powerful House Budget Committee
were informed recently that a series of ''special analysis'' booklets on the
budget, 11 pamphlets dealing with such technical issues as ''Federal
transactions in the national income,'' would not be provided free by the White
House. And if anyone wanted the booklets, well, he could fork over $20 to the
General Printing Office.

The issue simmered for about 30 seconds (perhaps a little longer), before the
panel reached a bipartisan agreement saying, in effect, that the
Administration's cuts had indeed gone far enough.

However, unlike other Americans troubled by the budget ax, the budget panel
members had a simple recourse. The committee said, in effect, You won't give
free documents to us, we won't offer our documents to you.

As fast as one can say ''new federalism,'' David A. Stockman and his budget
office yielded to the House panel and poured in the booklets.

Moral: There's no free lunch in Government, but plenty of free documents.
Paper Shortage

A t the Department of Labor, the budget cutbacks have taken an especially somber
turn. Labor Secretary Raymond J. Donovan has ordered a ''severe reduction'' in
subscriptions to such daily newspapers as The Wall Street Journal, The
Washington Post and, yes, even The New York Times. ''It's a question of saving
money,'' said Vernon Louviere, a aide to Mr. Donovan. ''Over the years a
tradition built up where anybody who needed a paper or magazine would order one.
We had to make a stop.''

Mr. Donovan himself has said that the reduction, which will also involve
magazines, will save almost $400,000 annually. His department, he said, has
taken ''a hard look at some relatively innocuous budget items only to find they
had spiraled out of control.''

''In typical Washington fashion, some spending molehills had grown to hillock
size and were on their way to becoming small mountains,'' said the dapper
Secretary, whose agile way with metaphors is now sadly lost to many of the
bureaucrats toiling in his own agency.
Big-Name Republicans

A s if President Reagan didn't have the economy, the Middle East and Poland to
worry about, along come those unpredictable conservatives. The current special
issue of Conservative Digest, published by Richard A. Viguerie, the mail-order
specialist, criticized the number of ''non-Reaganites'' within the
Administration, and asks, a little poignantly: ''Has Ronald Reagan's Presidency
been captured by Wall Street-Big Business-Corporate Executive Suite-Big New
York/Houston Law Firm-Eastern Liberal-and/or Establishment-Non-Reaganite
Republicans?''

The response: ''Do you have to ask?'' Francis X. Clines Bernard Weinraub

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%);

COMPANY: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET  (54%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET
(54%);

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET  (54%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT &
BUDGET (54%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES  UNITED STATES (93%);

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING;
PAPER AND PULP  IMMIGRATION (94%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY

 (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%);
BUDGETS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); BUDGET CUTS
(87%); FOREIGN LABOR (79%); LIBERALISM (79%); REFUGEES (79%); PUBLIC FINANCE
(77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); AMNESTY (73%);

PERSON: ALAN K SIMPSON  (95%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              204 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 15, 1982, Monday, Late City Final Edition

WHAT AN ETHIOPIAN MUST DO TO PROVE DESERVING OF ASYLUM

SECTION: Section A; Page 16, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 541 words


To the Editor:

Assistant Secretary of State Chester A. Crocker's letter (Feb. 1) charging
Anthony Lewis with ''gross inaccuracies and distortions'' in his column on the
deportation of Ethiopians (Jan. 4) is devoid of evidence supporting Mr.
Crocker's assertions.

Mr. Lewis's column demonstrates the glaring inconsistency of our U.N.
Ambassador's scathing condemnation of human-rights abuses and political
repression in Ethiopia in light of the Immigration and Naturalization Service's
demand, during the same month, that thousands of Ethiopians depart this country
within 30 days.

Instead of elucidating this paradox, Mr. Crocker's letter served only to
underscore the hypocritical treatment Ethiopians seeking refuge in the United
States will face. He makes this alarming statement:

''Although the human-rights picture in Ethiopia is still very bleak, the level
of chaos and violence in most of the country has declined since the period of
the Red Terror and the other postrevolutionary excesses. It is now possible for
Ethiopians who are not on their Government's 'wanted' list to return without
fear of falling victim to persecution.''

While admitting the bleakness of the ''human-rights picture'' in Ethiopia,
circumstances Ambassador Kirkpatrick more aptly termed ''savagery,'' Mr. Crocker
pronounces that, in order to be granted political asylum, an Ethiopian must
prove that he is on the Government's ''wanted'' list.

It is absurd to maintain that such an identifiable list exists, and ludicrous to
think that any refugee should have had the foresight to have secured a copy of
it. Such a high standard is patently unfair and discriminatory, and it
definitely overshoots Mr. Crocker's stated goal of bringing the status of
Ethiopians ''in line with that of most other nationalities.''

Are Cubans, Russians, Poles or other East Europeans who also flee
Soviet-inspired political repression required to show inclusion on a ''wanted''
list of their government in order to obtain political asylum? Most decidedly
not. Such a standard for determining ''a well-founded fear of persecution'' has
no basis in the law or in the I.N.S. regulations or operating instructions.
Moreover, adherence to such a standard would violate this country's
international commitments under the United Nations Protocol Relating to the
Status of Refugees.

Rather than contradicting Mr. Lewis's article, Mr. Crocker's letter exemplifies
the ''particular political callousness'' of our Government toward Ethiopians
characterized by Mr. Lewis.

It is, to say the least, difficult to explain why unusually high standards are
set for Ethiopians seeking refuge in the United States. It was also difficult to
explain the recent reinstatement of tax-exempt status for racially
discriminatory schools. However, in that case, the President had the courage to
admit and seek to correct his mistake.

The case of the Ethiopians is a terrible mistake yet in the making. We pray this
Government has the strength to undo it before an unspeakable toll is paid in
human suffering.
C. O'NEILL BROWN, VIVIANE EISENBERG, New York, Feb. 9, 1982

The writers are lawyers; Miss Eisenberg heads the New York City Bar
Association's Committee on Immigration and Nationality Law.

COUNTRY: ETHIOPIA (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); EASTERN EUROPE (53%); RUSSIAN
FEDERATION (53%);

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS  (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%);

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS  (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;ETHIOPIA; UNITED STATES  ETHIOPIA (97%); UNITED STATES (93%);
EASTERN EUROPE (53%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (53%);

SUBJECT: REFUGEES AND EXPATRIATES; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; FREEDOM AND HUMAN
RIGHTS; DEPORTATION  HUMAN RIGHTS (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); IMMIGRATION
(90%); REFUGEES (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (90%); DEPORTATION (90%);
POLITICAL ASYLUM (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS
(77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); UNITED NATIONS
INSTITUTIONS (71%); DISCRIMINATION (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (63%); TAX LAW (60%);

 TAX EXEMPTIONS (50%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              205 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 14, 1982, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

WHO ARE THE TRUE MODERNISTS?

BYLINE: By LEO BERSANI; Leo Bersani is chairman of the French department at the
Univ ersity of California at Berkeley. His most recent bo oks are ''Baudelaire
andFreud'' and ''The Death of Stephane Mallarme.''

SECTION: Section 7; Page 9, Column 1; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 1718 words


ALL THAT IS SOLID MELTS INTO AIR Th e Experienc e of Modernity.  By Marshall
Berman.  384 pp. New York: Simon & Schuster. $17.50.

MARSHALL BERMAN loves the Bronx. At the end of this occasionally endearing but
intellectually porous book, Berman, professor of political science at the
Graduate Center, City University of New York, proposes if not a solution, at
least a kind of cultural palliative for the urban blight of which the beloved
borough of his birth has become an infamous model. Berman's revenge on that
monstrosity devised by Robert Moses, the Cross-Bronx Expressway, would be a
gigantic mural, ''executed in a number of radically different styles'' and
painted onto eight miles of brick and concrete retaining walls running alongside
the expressway. This community art work would defy the ghastly present with a
portrayal of the Bronx's glorious history back to the great waves of immigration
at the beginning of this century. At the end of the Bronx mural (at ''the
boundary between the Bronx and the world''), there would be an enormous
ceremonial arch, which ''would be circular and inflatable, suggesting both an
automobile tire and a bagel. When fully pumped up, it would look as indigestibly
hard as a bagel, but ideal as a tire for a fast getaway; when soft, it would
appear leaky and dangerous as a tire but, as a bagel, inviting to settle down
and eat.''

Forget the vaguely sickening quality of that soggy bageled arch.  Forget the
threat to traffic safety which such a presumably gripping mural would create.
Forget the fact that this ambitious work would be enjoyed mostly by
non-Bronxites speeding through that borough on their way to communities probably
less afflicted with poverty, ruins and crime. The issue of the mural's audience
gets lost in Berman's excited anticipation of its hugely beneficent cultural
effect. Like Rafael Ferrer's ''Puerto Rican Sun'' (an enormous arch leading to
the Fox Street Community Garden, an arch sculptured in steel and evoking ''a
tropical paradise lost''), the Bronx mural could help people ''who are going
through a crucial, excruciating passage in their history - and in ours - get a
grip on where they are going and who they are.'' ''I hope (Ferrer's gateway) is
helping them,'' Berman adds. ''I know it is helping me. And it seems to me that
this is what modernism is all about.'' And that, I'm afraid, is what Marshall
Berman's book is all about.  The little silliness about a Bronx Expressway mural
comes at the end of a very ambitious argument about modernity, an argument which
is at once simple and incoherent. According to Berman, the modern age ''has lost
touch with the roots of its own modernity.'' Even the work of the most brilliant
contemporary artists and thinkers suggests that '' ... we have missed or broken
the connection between our culture and our lives.'' Compared with 19th-century
modernists, the modernists of today give us ''a radical flattening of
perspective and shrinkage of imaginative range.'' Nineteenth-century writers
''were simultaneously enthusiasts and enemies of modern life, wrestling
inexhaustibly with its ambiguities and contradictions.'' They had more depth
than we have today, more ''empathy with, and faith in, their fellow modern men
and women,'' a greater sense of ''modern man as a subject - as a living being
capable of response, judgment and action in and on the world.'' In the ''bleak
context'' of recent tendencies to isolate modernist culture from the social
techniques and processes of modernization, Berman proposes that we return to
those thinkers of the 19th century who ''experienced modernity as a whole,'' and
who provide the model for a ''dynamic and dialectical modernism'' opposed to the
compartmentalized, dehumanized modernism of today. Thus Berman will offer us
readings of Goethe, Marx, Baudelaire, as well as of several 19th-century Russian
writers, in the faith that '' ... going back can be a way to go forward: that
remembering the modernisms of the nineteenth century can give us the vision and
courage to create the modernisms of the twenty-first.'' It is refreshing to be
reminded of the inescapable ties between the realities of industrial
modernization and a cultural modernism which, as Berman writes, has sometimes
presented itself as untouched, unsullied, by such realities. And it is
enlivening to have a reading of Marx which proposes that, '' ... for all Marx's
invective against the bourgeois economy, he embraces enthusiastically the
personality structure that this economy has produced.'' I should add that Berman
is good at narrative: the accounts of the building of St. Petersburg, and of the
careers of Baron Haussmann in Paris and of Robert Moses in New York make for
enjoyable reading. Finally, there is, suffusing nearly every page of ''All That
Is Solid Melts Into Air'' (the title comes from ''The Communist Mani festo''), a
kind of intense good will, a sincerity, a decency and an enthusiasm for certain
aspects of modernity (es pecially city streets) which cannot but touch us.

Unfortunately, there is much more (or less ) than enthusiasm and good will in
this book. There is, first of all, the quality of thought displayed in such
remarks as: ''Rousseau, as everyone knows, was a deeply troubled man.'' ''Drawn
impatiently toward new realms of thought and action, (Faust) has come to feel
(Gretchen's) needs and fears as more and more of a drag.'' ''If we had to
nominate a first modernist, Baudelaire would surely be the man.'' ''But the
clash and fusion of modernities goes on even in the most fully modernized
sectors of today's world; the Petersburg influenza infuses the air of New York,
of Milan, of Stockholm, of Tokyo, of Tel Aviv, and it blows on and on.''

Furthermore, ''All That Is Solid Melts Into Air'' is not without slipshod
judgments. What can it possibly mean to say of ''structuralism'' (whatever
Berman may mean by that) that it ''simply wipes the question of modernity -
along with all other questions about the self and history - off the map''? And
even the most unconvinced reader of Michel Foucault's efforts to describe how we
can resist the moves of oppressive power in society could not claim that '' ...
Foucault denies the possibility of any sort of freedom, either outside (such
institutions as prisons, hospitals, and asylums) or within their interstices.''

Such unconsidered pronouncements on contemp orary thought seriously weaken
Berman's thesis. The argument for the contemporary relevance of a certain
19th-century modernism depends o n the demonstrated inadequacies of more recent
versions of moder nism to modern life, inadequacies which are asserted but never
ser iously studied. But evenin making this objection, we are perhaps bein g too
indulgent toward Berman's enterprise. If (a big ''if'' I shoul d add)
20th-century modernism is without either a sense of ''dept h'' or a sense of
''modern man as a subject,'' then that is our situation, and no amount of
quoting from Goethe is going to cha nge it. I don't mean that we should
therefore stop reading Goethe and Baudelaire, and I don't mean that our
situation will never be c hanged. I do mean that the modernism which Marshall
Berman deplores is aware of the modernism which he admires. Furthermore a cer
tain repudiation of the humanistic rhetoric of ''depth,'' of ''wholen ess'' and
of ''unity'' in human life cannot be dealt with simply by an admiring or
polemicalrepetition of that rhetoric.

Berman takes that rhetoric as an ahistorical given, and he uses it to judge both
those thinkers who have attempted to remove themselves from the assumptions
underlying such terms, and those who invented, or at least agreed to, those
assumptions. Needless to say, the latter come off best in such a comparison.
History, however, gets lost in this unquestioned promotion of a particular
humanistic ideology to a teleological status in modern history.

The truth is, of course, that Berman simply prefers an optimistic humanism to -
whatever it is that we may have today. That preference probably makes him a more
likeable fellow than many rigidly ''postmodernist theoreticians,'' but it is,
alas, no substitute for a study of those historical conditions which allow, at
different moments, for the emergence of different sorts of human discourse.
Berman gives us a parody of the already parodistic rage for relevance prevalent
in the counterculture of the 60's. The failure to take seriously the particular
conditions of particular discourses leads to that extraordinary statement about
the 19th-century Petersburg ''influenza'' blowing ''on and on'' in all the
capitals of the contemporary world, as well as to the equally astonishing
identification of the construction site of the Bronx Expressway with the
economic development project in ''Faust, Part II'', or of New York City with the
''Baudelairean forest of symbols.''

But Berman moves with great ease between literature and society; he even speaks
of artists as the ''unacknowledged legislators of the world.'' To refute such
cultural pieties might lead us to some rather difficult arguments. It might, for
example, bring us to identify the power of literature with its legislative
impotence, to argue that its critical (and political) force consists not in the
forms of life which it deceptively proposes, but rather in the persistence with
which it demonstrates the problematic nature of meaning in human statements.
Literature may thereby make us wary of the coercive intentions to which all
legislative discourses are perhaps inherently congenial.

But to pursue such lines of thought is of course viewed with great suspicion in
many quarters of our society. The publication of Marshall Berman's book - and,
even more, the serious and generally favorable reviews which it has already
received - are interesting mainly as yet another sign of the current state of
thought in America. One result of the lazy and complacent dismissal of difficult
thinking by certain cultural conservatives in the United States is the attention
which we are expected to give to ''All That Is Solid Melts Into Air.'' And there
is no sign that the Anglo-Saxon intellectual ''influenza'' emanating from this
book will do anything but, in Marshall Berman's entertainingly inelegant
language, ''blow on and on.''

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR
PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%);

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%);

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%);

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%);

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (58%);

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%);   NEW YORK, USA (94%);   NEW YORK, NY, USA
(94%);

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE  BOOK REVIEWS (91%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE
(77%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (77%); LITERATURE (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY
PROFESSORS (72%); TIRES (66%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (57%); IMMIGRATION (53%);

PERSON: ROBERT MOSES (57%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: drawing

TYPE: review

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              206 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 14, 1982, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

Catholic Migrants

SECTION: Section 7; Page 31, Column 2; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 205 words


To the Editor:

This letter is in reference to the review of the book ''American Catholics''
(Nov. 29) by Garry Wills. In the third paragraph Mr.  Wills states that ''Puerto
Ricans, Mexicans and Cubans continue the story of Catholic immigration.''uerto
Rico was ceded by Spain to the United States in 1898, and American citizenship
was granted to Puerto Ricans in 1917. Therefore it is no more accurate to speak
of Puerto Ricans who move to the continental United States as immigrants than it
would be to speak of Americans who move from one state to another as immigrants.
The term that should be used to describe migration by citizens of one country
within the borders of that country is ''migrants.'' Unfortunately, there are
large numbers of people in the United States, many of them well educated, who
believe that Puerto Rico is a foreign country.  Associating Puerto Ricans with
true immigrants only helps to perpetuate that belief.  RAFAEL JUAN IGARTUA Glen
Burnie, Md.

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%);

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (79%);

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%);   MARYLAND, USA (79%);

SUBJECT: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH; RELIGION AND CHURCHES; BOOKS AND LITERATURE
RELIGION (97%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (94%); IMMIGRATION (92%); CHRISTIANS &
CHRISTIANITY (92%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); LITERATURE
(73%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: letter

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              207 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              February 13, 1982, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

Buffalo Hearing Put Off for 5 Suspected of Helping I. R. A.

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 2; Page 29, Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 149 words

DATELINE: BUFFALO, Feb. 12


A hearing on charges of trying to enter the United States illegally was delayed
today for five men suspected of intending to purchase arms for the Irish
Republican Army.

After the five were arrested at the Canadian border last weekend, Benedict J.
Ferro, who is in charge of the Buffalo office of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, said there was ''substantial evidence'' that the men
were acting as agents of the I.R.A.

William Truesdale, deputy director of the Buffalo immigration office, said one
of the defendants, previously identified as Michael Weir, 35 years old, of
Belfast in Northern Ireland, actually is Desmond Ellis, 29, of Dublin.

The other four defendants were identified as Edward Howell, 34, of Belfast; and
William O'Neill, 29; James Kelly, 41, and William Gilroy, 36, all of St.
Catharines, Ontario, and formerly of Belfast.

COUNTRY: CANADA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); NORTHERN IRELAND (88%); IRELAND
(79%); UNITED KINGDOM (78%); NORTH AMERICA (73%);

STATE: ONTARIO, CANADA (56%);

CITY: BELFAST, NORTHERN IRELAND (88%); DUBLIN, IRELAND (79%);

COMPANY: ST CATHARINES STANDARD (56%);   IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY  (91%); IRISH
REPUBLICAN ARMY (91%);

ORGANIZATION: IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY  (91%); IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY (91%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;IRELAND, NORTHERN; GREAT BRITAIN; CANADA  CANADA (93%); UNITED
STATES (92%); NORTHERN IRELAND (88%); IRELAND (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (78%); NORTH
AMERICA (73%);   ONTARIO, CANADA (56%);   BELFAST, NORTHERN IRELAND (88%);
DUBLIN, IRELAND (79%);

SUBJECT: FIREARMS  IMMIGRATION (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); EVIDENCE
(88%); ARRESTS (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%);

PERSON: JAMES T KELLY (56%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              208 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              February 11, 1982, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

TWO VISA DISPUTES ANNOY AND INTRIGUE INDIA

BYLINE: By MICHAEL T. KAUFMAN, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 10, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 722 words

DATELINE: NEW DELHI, Feb. 10


The award of a United States entry visa to an Indian advocate of Sikh separatism
and the denial of a Soviet visa to an Indian Communist who holds the Order of
Lenin have raised indignation and speculation here in the last week.

The Government's anger was aroused by news that Jagjit Singh Chauhan, the chief
spokesman for a movement that advocates a separate homeland for the Sikh
religious minority, had been allowed to enter the United States from Canada.

Foreign Minister P.V. Narasimha Rao summoned the United States Ambassador, Harry
S. Barnes, last weekend to convey the extreme disappointment of the Indian
Government that Mr. Chauhan had been allowed to enter the United States despite
an earlier notification by India that his passport was no longer valid. Mr. Rao
reportedly expressed surprise that in light of the American Civil War support
could be given to an avowed secessionist.

United States officials here and in Washington notified the Indian Government
that although Mr. Chauhan's entry had originally been blocked, the objection to
his entry was waived on humanitarian grounds because he told United States
immigration officials that he was going to Houston for treatment of a heart
problem.

Meeting Termed Stiffly Formal

Mr. Rao reportedly also questioned why the United States had not specifically
barred Mr. Chauhan from taking part in political activity, as has Canada, where
Mr. Chauhan is a resident. The Foreign Minister was told that there was no
provision under United States law for such a limitation.

During the meeting with the United States Ambassador, which was characterized as
stiffly formal by both sides, the Indian Foreign Minister said the decision to
admit Mr. Chauhan was ''a new irritant in the already strained relations between
the two Governments.''

The case of the Soviet visa denial to a staunch pro-Soviet activist has not
drawn any official response, but the action is regarded as a significant
indicator of Soviet attitudes toward the Government of Prime Minister Indira
Gandhi. The man denied the visa is S.A. Dange, an 83-year-old Communist whose
pro-Soviet loyalties go back 60 years. He had intended to attend the Havana
meeting of the World Federation of Trade Unions, of which he is a co-founder and
a vice president. He had hoped to change planes in Moscow but was thwart ed when
the SovietEmbassy refused him a visa.

To some here, this decision appears to signal a retreat from recent Soviet
policies of support for the Indian Government. Last autumn Mr. Dange broke away
from the Communist Party of India to form the All India Communist Party, which
threw its support entirely behind Mrs. Gandhi.

A Visit to Moscow

At that time Indian analysts and Western diplomats thought that Mr. Dange had
Soviet sponsorship for his action because he formed the new party after a long
visit to Moscow and Eastern Europe. The assumption was that while Moscow had
varying degrees of responsibility toward the two established Indian Communist
factions that opposed Mrs.  Gandhi's domestic policies, their foremost
obligation was to her Government, which con sistently supported Soviet positions
on Afghanistan a nd Southeast Asia.

This belief was further strengthened when Soviet dignitaries attended the first
meeting of a group called the Friends of the Soviet Union, which was set up by
Mrs. Gandhi's Congress Party to wean away the flow of patronage from Moscow that
had previously gone to Indo-Soviet Cultural Society, a front organization
dominated by traditional Indian Communists. Mr. Dange supported the creation of
the new group.

Since then, the two major Communist factions appear to have narrowed their
differences, which go back 18 years and which were aggravated in 1975 when one
wing supported Mrs. Gandhi's declaration of emergency and the other opposed her.
Last month both of the factions backed an inconclusive national strike against
Government policies, and in this they appeared to have some lukewarm support
from Moscow.

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); INDIA (97%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); CANADA
(92%); EUROPE (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (50%);

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); NEW DELHI, INDIA (79%);

COMPANY: ALL INDIA RADIO (50%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; INDIA; UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS  UNITED
STATES (99%); INDIA (97%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); CANADA (92%); EUROPE (79%);

 EASTERN EUROPE (50%);   MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); NEW DELHI, INDIA
(79%);

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; UNITED STATE
INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS  PASSPORTS & VISAS (91%);
INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); IMMIGRATION (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%);
SEPARATISM & SECESSION (90%); SIKHS & SIKHISM (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN
SERVICES (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); POLITICS
(89%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); POLITICAL
PARTIES (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); IMMIGRATION LAW (71%); CIVIL WAR (68%);
LABOR UNIONS (53%);

PERSON: P V NARASIMHA RAO  (71%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              209 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              February 11, 1982, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

FOREIGN AFFAIRS;
ELLIS ISLAND SOUTH

BYLINE: By Flora Lewis

SECTION: Section A; Page 35, Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 898 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Feb. 10


The exodus of desperate Haitians to South Florida has raised hackles, fears and
some decent sympathies. So many gripping issues are entangled that there is a
tendency for outrage to narrow into lines that never meet. That can't ease
matters, let alone produce solutions.

There is, in fact, a dilemma that neither the Coast Guard, the Immigration
Service, liberal indignation, xenophobia nor economic and social resentment can
handle on their own.

Here is a glaring case where the idea of ''new federalism'' directly confronts
basic national interests in many ways, including foreign policy, protection of
constitutional rights, humane values and the under standable irritation of a
relatively small community forced to bea r the burden of a problem stemming from
America's role in the world.

In Haiti, the New York Times correspondent Jo Thomas has reported, ''Miami''
means the U.S., land of opportunity. It isn't really America's fault that things
are so bad in the hemisphere's second oldest republic. But the U.S. cannot and
does not want to change the fact that it is the best-off country and thus an
inevitable magnet for miserable neighbors.

There is no way to move out of the North American neighborhood, as there was a
way, however painful, to move out of Southeast Asia. So the fact of attraction
has to be faced, along with the Republic's historic pride in accepting ''your
tired, your poor, your huddled masses yearning to breathe free.''

The Administration has seized on the test of political asylum as a way of
sorting out who can stay and who must be deported. Given American tradition, it
is an arbitrary filter to provide an excuse for limiting the numbers of Haitians
accepted and selecting the better educated.

The attempts to apply the test have led not only to anomalies but to procedures
that threaten the supremacy of constitutional guarantees on due process, a
danger to citizens as well as aliens. A 38-year-old lawyer on the staff of the
Depart ment of Justice, RichardAllen Marshall Jr., recently quit his job her e
because, he said, he could no longer in conscience defend the Gove rnment's
position.

Besides, as Mr. Marshall and many other troubled Floridians point out, however
hard it may be to define the difference between a political refugee and a person
simply seeking a better chance to work and survive, the test isn't being applied
with common fairness. Why is it taken so much for granted, they ask, that
Cubans, Vietnamese, and now Poles meet that measure, but Haitians probably
don't? Does political asylum only apply to people from Communist states but not
to those fleeing equally if not more repressive dictatorships?

An easy conclusion is that discrimination against Haitians represents endemic
racism. That may be a factor, but it clearly isn't the whole story.

For one thing, there is a last-straw element in the hostility to Haitian
migration into Miami. The area has absorbed over 100,000 Cubans who streamed in
from Mariel in a period of three months, putting a tremendous strain on the
community. A sharp rise in the crime rate aggravated tensions, though it is
easing now and in any case it is generally accepted that serious crime here is
almost all drug-related and has little to do with refugees. Resistence to
newcomers, however, is immensely increased, especially at a time of high
unemployment.

Less openly expressed, but obviously important, are the cultural and social
difficulties presented by the Haitians. Older migration waves brought urban
dwellers with some knowledge of at least the rudiments of modern society.
Current arrivals tend to be totally unskilled illiterates, speaking an arcane
language, Creole, that scarcely anyone else knows.

A country big enough and adaptable enough to settle large numbers of Vietnamese
could cope with these people, now estimated at 60,000 in the U.S. But the Miami
area's population of 1.7 million, nearly double that of a generation ago, balks
at being saddled with the whole responsibility.

So the Immigration Service has packed new Haitian migrants into a detention
center where normal standards of justice aren't being applied, and the Coast
Guard is trying to intercept new arrivals at the cost sometimes of their lives.
Every part of the operation has some justification, and every part of it is in a
way disgraceful.

This is a national problem -Miami's only because it is the nearest U.S. city to
Haiti - and it requires a national decision on refugees that can't be evaded by
legalisms about who is and who is not ''political.''

And it is a long-term problem of how to live next door to desperation. We can
try to build cruel and costly barriers, undermining our own standards, but we
can't ignore it.

The unlimited immigration of America's first century and a half is no longer
realistic. Now the U.S. cannot avoid some responsibility for helping people
nearby to make life tolerable in their own homes if we want to avoid the
shameful dilemma Miami is having to face with hapless Haitians.

COUNTRY: HAITI (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); NORTH
AMERICA (79%);

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (95%);

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (93%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; HAITI; MIAMI (FLA); FLORIDA  HAITI (96%); UNITED
STATES (95%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%);   FLORIDA, USA
(95%);   MIAMI, FL, USA (93%);

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION  EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); IMMIGRATION
(89%); POLITICAL ASYLUM (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); DUE PROCESS (75%);
CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (75%); FOREIGN POLICY (75%); REFUGEES (72%); DEPORTATION
(71%); LAWYERS (69%); DISCRIMINATION (65%); RACE & RACISM (60%); INTERNATIONAL
RELATIONS (56%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              210 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 9, 1982, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

AROUND THE WORLD;
5 Irish Nationals Are Arrested by U.S.

BYLINE: UPI

SECTION: Section A; Page 9, Column 5; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 166 words

DATELINE: BUFFALO, Feb. 8


Immigration officials said today that five Irish nationals were arrested over
the weekend for attempting to enter the United States from Canada to purchase
weapons.

Immigration officials said the five, including three who were landed immigrants
in Canada, were stopped at the Whirlpool Bridge in Lewiston, N.Y., just north of
Niagara Falls, late Saturday night.

Bill Truesdale, assistant immigration director, said, ''At the time they were
arrested they were found to be in po ssession of evidence which reflects their
purpose, to purchase arm s and ammunition to return to Northern Ireland.''

Officials declined to identify the five, but said additional details would be
made available later. The arrests came just over two weeks after two Irish
Republican Army supporters, Owen Carron and Danny Morrison, were arrested as
they attempted to enter the United States illegally from Canada.

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (94%); IRELAND (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND
(79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%);

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%);

CITY: BUFFALO, NY, USA (79%);

COMPANY: IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY  (56%); IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY (56%);

ORGANIZATION: IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY  (56%); IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY (56%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; CANADA; IRELAND, REPUBLIC OF  UNITED STATES (94%);
CANADA (94%); IRELAND (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%);   NEW
YORK, USA (79%);   BUFFALO, NY, USA (79%);

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; ILLEGAL ALIENS  IMMIGRATION (94%); ARRESTS
(92%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (74%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              211 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              February 3, 1982, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

3 ARE INVESTIGATED IN THEFT OF EXAMS

BYLINE: By WAYNE KING, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 12, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 399 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Feb. 2


The Federal Immigration and Naturalization Service is studying the arres ts of
three pers ons and the seizure of stolen college admissions tests that they bel
ieve are part of a Taiwan-based ring dealing in English-language examinations
used by Taiwanese to get into American schools.

The arrests and subsequent investigation were made by the San Francisco Police,
but Robert Moschorak, an investigator with the immigration service here, said
today that his agency was studying the case because one of those charged might
be an illegal Taiwanese alien.

He also said the service would attempt to determine whether the stolen college
and graduate school test materials had been used to help aliens remain in the
United States on student visas they had obtained by cheating.

The case began last Oct. 17 when proctors at a test center here called the
police after noticing a Taiwanese student cutting pages out of his test booklet
for the Graduate Record Examination, a standard test used to determine
eligibility for admission to graduate school.

Arrests at Testing Center

The student, Che-tang Weng, 26 years old, was arrested as he left the testing
room. Jean Chen, 29, also a Taiwanese student, was arrested and charged with
stealing her test booklet at the same examination. They face charges of grand
theft, possession of stolen property, unlawfully obtaining trade secrets and
conspiracy.

Jean Seto, a native of Taiwan who is a naturalized American citizen, was
arrested later after the police seized eight cartons of testing materials at her
home, where Miss Chen was also living.

The police said the material included copies of the Graduate Record Examination,
the Law School Aptitude Test, and the Test of English as a Foreign Language.
Mrs. Seto was charged with possession of stolen property and with unlawfully
obtaining trade secrets.

Mrs. Seto's attorney, J. Farragher Campbell, acknowledged that his client did
''distribute booklets and exams'' for the Merica Assocation, an organization in
Taipai, Taiwan, that assisted students in studying or seeking to study in the
United States, but he contended that it was ''no different from a bar review
course where you get old test booklets.''

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%);

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (56%);

COMPANY: IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE  (93%); IMMIGRATION &
NATURALIZATION SERVICE (93%);

ORGANIZATION: IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE  (93%); IMMIGRATION &
NATURALIZATION SERVICE (93%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;TAIWAN  UNITED STATES (94%);   SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (56%);

SUBJECT: LANGUAGE AND LANGUAGES; ENGLISH LANGUAGE; TESTS AND TESTING; EDUCATION
AND SCHOOLS  IMMIGRATION (93%); ARRESTS (91%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); GRADUATE &
PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (90%); ACADEMIC
ADMISSIONS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%);
LARCENY & THEFT (90%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (89%); PROPERTY CRIMES
(89%); RECEIVING STOLEN PROPERTY (89%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (89%); FOREIGN
STUDENTS (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); LAW SCHOOLS (78%); ACADEMIC
TESTING (78%); NATURALIZATION (78%); CONSPIRACY (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%);
LAWYERS (76%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (73%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              212 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 1, 1982, Monday, Late City Final Edition

PERILED ETHIOPIANS CAN STILL STAY HERE

SECTION: Section A; Page 14, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 408 words


To the Editor:

Anthony Lewis's Jan. 4 column, suggesting that the Reagan Administration was
embarking on a wholesale deportation of Ethiopian refugees (''Hypocrisy Wins
Again''), contains some serious inaccuracies and distortions.

In fact, the recent change in the treatment of Ethiopians by the Immigration and
Naturalization Service only brings their status into line with that of most
other nationalities in the United States. Up until last summer, Ethiopians were
allowed to remain and work in the U.S., even if their visas had expired, under
what is called ''extended voluntary departure status.''

This special status was adopted following the Ethiopian revolution in 1974 -
during the period of Ethiopia's ''Red Terror,'' when large numbers of Ethiopians
were being killed in both Government-sponsored and random violence. At that
time, the State Department recommended to the Immigration and Naturalization
Service that Ethiopians in the United States not be forced to return to Ethiopia
while these conditions persisted.

Such voluntary departure programs have been adopted only rarely.  This policy
provided for humane treatment of thousands of Ethiopians in this country as a
temporary response to conditions in Ethiopia at that time.

Although the human-rights picture in Ethiopia is still very bleak, the level of
chaos and violence in most of the country has declined since the period of the
Red Terror and the other post-revolutionary excesses. It is now possible for
Ethiopians who are not on their Government's ''wanted'' list to return without
fear of falling victim to persecution.

Ethiopians who are bona fide refugees (i.e., those who have been admitted into
the United States as refugees from processing centers overseas) are in no danger
of being asked to leave. Neither are those Ethiopians who do have well-founded
fear of persecution from the Government should they return.

All applications for political asylum are reviewed on a case-bycase basis;
asylum is granted to those applicants who do show a wellfounded fear of
persecution.

Ethiopians who are here for eduction, medical treatment or whatever may also
stay as long as their visas remain valid. Those who are affected by the
suspension of extended voluntary departure status for Ethiopians are those who
no longer have any legitimate reason for remaining in the United States.
CHESTER A. CROCKER, Assistant Secretary of, State Washington, Jan. 21, 1982

COUNTRY: ETHIOPIA (97%); UNITED STATES (96%);

COMPANY: IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE  (84%); IMMIGRATION &
NATURALIZATION SERVICE (84%);

ORGANIZATION: IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE  (84%); IMMIGRATION &
NATURALIZATION SERVICE (84%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; ETHIOPIA  ETHIOPIA (97%); UNITED STATES (96%);

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; REFUGEES AND EXPATRIATES; FREEDOM AND HUMAN
RIGHTS; UNITED STATE INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS  IMMIGRATION (91%); REFUGEES (91%);

 US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS
(90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (89%); POLITICAL ASYLUM (89%);
DEPORTATION (78%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN
SERVICES (73%);

PERSON: CHESTER ARTHUR CROCKER  (59%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              213 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               January 31, 1982, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

U.S. Ends Registration In January for Aliens

BYLINE: Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 22, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 181 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 30


Sunday is the first Jan. 31 in more than three decades that has not marked the
deadline for aliens living in the United States to register with the Immigration
and Naturalization Service.

In December, Congress pa ssed and President Reagan signed a bill that eliminated
the annual report. Resident a liens had been required since 1950 to report their
addresses every Ja nuary.

Willful failure to do so was considered a misdemeanor, although the agency said
the law was rarely, if ever, enforced. Under the new law, aliens are still
required to report any change of address within 10 days.

An agency spokesman, Verne Jervis, said the law was changed because the report
was unnecessary.  ''It was simply redundant information,'' he said, ''absolutely
unnecessary'' because aliens are required to inform the service immediately of
any change of address.

Mr. Jervis predicted that the service would save more than $1 million a year by
eliminating the regulation.

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%);

COMPANY: IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE  (84%); IMMIGRATION &
NATURALIZATION SERVICE (84%);

ORGANIZATION: IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE  (84%); IMMIGRATION &
NATURALIZATION SERVICE (84%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES  UNITED STATES (94%);

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION  IMMIGRATION (91%);
LEGISLATION (90%); ANNUAL REPORTS (87%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); MISDEMEANORS
(55%);

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (58%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              214 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               January 31, 1982, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

EMPLOYERS DEFENDED IN COAST 'SLAVERY' CASE

BYLINE: By JUDITH CUMMINGS, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 27, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 694 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Jan. 30


Several of the Los Angeles-area residents suspected of using Indonesian aliens
as ''slave'' labor in their homes and businesses are Indonesians themselves, an
attorney representing them said today.

Alvin Michaelson, a lawyer who practices in Beverly Hills, said in an interview
that his clients are a close-knit group of relatives and friends who had no
knowledge of the immigration status of the Indonesians in their employ.

Mr. Michaelson's firm, Michaelson, Withey & Abzug, is representing 12 of the 80
homeowners and business people under Government subpoena to testify in the case.

''Many of these people are Indonesians themselves,'' Mr. Michaelson said. ''Many
of them were born in Indonesia and lived there most of their lives. They simply
wanted good help. You know like they say, 'Good help is hard to get these days'?
That's what it's all about.''

Defense of Employers

Describing the workers as ''like family'' to his clients, Mr.  Michaelson
contended that they were not held against their will.  ''They work in excellent
accommodations,'' he said. ''They begged to come here, and they are absolutely
delighted to be here.'' The Justice Department said Tuesday that it had
discovered an international ''slave'' ring that was providing illegal Indonesian
aliens to work in the homes and businesses of wealthy residents of Los Angeles
and Beverly Hills. Federal invest igators have refused to identify any of the
residents it has called t o testify in the grand jury proceedings, which began
at the end of t he week.

No arrests have been made in the case. Federal officials said the target of the
investigation would be providers of the aliens, who they said were being sold
for $1,500 to $3,000 and forced to work for two years for their ''owners.''

However, officials of the Indonesian Government have expressed do ubts about
whether the workers were held against their will and hassaid they may have been
tourists.

Raids on Homes and Businesses

The 26 Indonesian workers who were seized in raids on homes and businesses
Tuesday are being held in a Federal center in Hollywood as material witnesses.
The case was investigated jointly by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the
Immigration and Naturalization Service.

Gerald Klippness, an immigration agent, was quoted by The Los Angeles Times as
having said the investigation found that the same ring had also sent Indonesians
to families in New York City and Miami.

The United States Attorney for the Southern District of New York, John S. Martin
Jr., said tonight that he was aware of the investigation on the West Coast but
unaware of any in New York.

''It has not come to my personal attention,'' Mr. Martin said, adding that the
Federal authorities nevertheless ''may very well be investigating'' the matter.

No Comment From Agency

A duty officer at the Immigration and Naturalization Service in New York said
nobody in a position to comment would be available until Monday.

The Justice Department has contended that the Indonesian workers were paid
minimal or no wages and that they were kept against their will, sometimes
through intimidation, threat of bodily harm and confiscation of their passports
and other papers.

Mr. Michaelson said his clients, whom he declined to identify, ''all thought
these people were eligible to be working in this country.''

He said, however, that he did not know whether the workers were paid wages or
''how they worked it.'' Mr. Michaelson called the Government's case ''absurd''
and said his clients had done nothing ''more serious than what happens every day
in L.A. with the hiring of Salvadorans, Guatemalans, everybody'' who may be in
this country illegally. He suggested that the Government had made an issue of
the Indonesians' case to improve the public's perception of the immigration
agency.

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (84%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS:
PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (84%);

COUNTRY: INDONESIA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%);

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); WEST USA (79%);

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%);

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES TIMES (84%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;INDONESIA, REPUBLIC OF; LOS ANGELES (CALIF)  INDONESIA (99%);
UNITED STATES (94%);   CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); WEST USA
(79%);   LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%);

SUBJECT: FOREIGN POPULATION AND FOREIGN DESCENT GROUPS; LABOR  LAWYERS (91%);
SLAVERY (90%); TESTIMONY (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); IMMIGRATION (89%); JUSTICE
DEPARTMENTS (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); SUBPOENAS (89%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE
FORCES (89%); CRIMINAL FALSE IMPRISONMENT (87%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); IMMIGRATION
LAW (78%); WITNESSES (77%); FAMILY (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%);
INTERVIEWS (72%); GRAND JURY (70%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              215 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               January 31, 1982, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

HAITIANS ATTRACT SYMPATHETIC NOTICE

BYLINE: By SAMUEL G. FREEDMAN

SECTION: Section 11; Connecticut; Page 1, Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1325 words


CONNECTICUT, a state settled by waves of immigrants, is beginning to fathom the
size, needs and problems of its latest newcomers, the Haitians.

The Haitian population that grew to several thousand in the preceding decade had
attracted little attention other than from the Federal Immigration and
Naturalization Service. But the last month has seen concern for Haitian
immigrants emerge in many other areas, from local social service agencies to
some of the state's highest elected officials.

United States Senator Christopher J. Dodd, Democrat of Norwich, who returned two
weeks ago from a tour of Haiti and the detainment camps of Haitians in the
southern United States, is advocating more lenient immigration laws. He
specifically proposed allowing individuals other than family members to act as
sponsors of the Haitians already here.

Although Mr. Dodd's remarks related to a national policy, they have clear
implications for Connecticut, where at least one-third of the Haitians are here
illegally, according to an informal survey by a Haitian social worker in
Stamford. Many continue to hide from the Immigration and Naturalization Service,
which last summer arrested more than 25 Haitians in Stamford, Greenwich, Norwalk
and Westport.  To stem the flow of Haitian refugees, Mr. Dodd said, the United
States must work with the Haitian Government to improve the economic conditions
in the island nation, one of the poorest in the world.

''What Americans have to understand,'' said Mr. Dodd, ''is that, yes, these
people are violating our immigration laws. But they don't know what those laws
are when they get on some rickety boat on the north shore of Haiti. They're
following a natural law: survival. I'd backstroke out of Haiti if I had to.''

Most Americans, the Senator continued, let racial animosity and a lack of
knowledge about conditions in Haiti influence their ''misundertanding'' of the
refugees.

United States Representative Stewart B. McKinney, Republican of Fairfield, has
co-sponsored legislation in Congress that would classify Haitians who arrived
between Jan. 1, 1979, and May, 14, 1981, as political refugees. The changed
status would protect those Haitians from deportation. The bill is awaiting
action in the House Judiciary Committee's Subcommittee of Immigration, Refugees
and International Law.

''This is not an immigration problem,'' Mr.  McKinney said recently,''but a
humanitarian problem requiring a huma ne solution.'' Mr. McKinney also has
followed the Haitian issue locally. His Stamford office received a report
detailing t he housing and employment needs of that city's Haitian population,
which may be the largest in the state, from the Committee on Training and E
mployment Inc., a social service agency. Mr. McKinney's Stamford aid es have
helped several Haitians gain entrance to this country for their children, who
had been barred because they had not had the necessary blood tests to prove the
family relationship.

Neither the Immigration Service nor the Bureau of the Census possesses recent
estimates of legal or illegal Haitian immigrants.  The informal survey in
Stamford, conducted by Lehem Felican, a Haitian who is a social worker, counted
2,155 Haitians in that city, 687 of them illegal immigrants. But Mr. Felican
said that he omitted many Haitians who asked not to be counted because they
feared being discovered by immigration agents.

He and other observers estimated that Stamford may have as many as 5,000
Haitians. Myra M. Oliver, the executive director of the International Institute
of Connecticut, a private group that resettles immigrants, said there were also
enclaves of Haitians in Hartford, Bridgeport and New Haven.

But the situation in Stamford, as documented in the report to Mr.  McKinney and
amplified by interviews in the city, may provide indications of the Haitian
experience statewide.

Haitian unemployment stands at 60.8 percent, the report to Mr.  McKinney said,
and underemployment stymies hundreds of Haitians who arrived with skills but
often without fluency in English. Many speak French or a Haitian dialect.

Mickel Roy, who was trained as an accountant and is the elder of a Seventh-day
Adventist congregation in Stamford, works as a machine operator. Another
Haitian, who was a physician in Haiti, earns $3.37 an hour as an assembler in
Norwalk.

Housing is the second major problem for the Haitians, the report said.
Applicants for public housing face a two- to four-year wait - longer than many
Haitians have lived here. Private rents rarely dip below $350 a month for a
one-bedroom apartment.

''It's a desperate situation,'' said Mundy C. Redfern, a housing relocation
officer for the City of Stamford.  It is a situation many Haitians have resolved
by crowding into small apartments. Families of five sometimes share a single
room, Mr. Felican said.

But the Haitians and their supporters are quick to dispel a picture of uniform
squalor and helplessness. Municipal officials in Stamford and in Bridgeport said
the Haitians did not present a particular crime problem or drain civic resources
- two common misperceptions, particularly of illegal immigrants.

''They're not a serious crime problem,'' said Stamford Police Chief John T.
Considine. Richard L. Bisi, an aide to Bridgeport Mayor Leonard S. Paoletta,
said, ''We're not aware of any particular problems in this office.'' Five
Haitians have received welfare from Stamford in the last few years, said Robert
J. Mendela, caseworker supervisor for the city. Only one Haitian has ever stayed
in the emergency housing shelter operated by the Community of St. Luke in
Stamford, said its administrator, Frank P. Marzullo.

But a number of Haitians, Mr. Marzullo added, helped refurbish the shelter. To
him, the action was typical. ''All they want,'' he said, ''is a roof over their
head and an education for their kids.''

While unemployment and poor housing plague Haitians in Stamford, some are
striving for economic gain and assimilation. Dozens of Haitians study English in
Stamford's night school for adults.  Twentysix Haitian families own homes, Mr.
Felican's survey indicated. Two Haitian congregations, Baptist and Seventh-day
Adventist, hold services in St. Luke's Episcopal Church.

The issue now for the Haitian supporters is how to extend those possibilities to
more people. The initial steps of organizing have been slow. Mr. Felican
convened a statewide congress of Haitians four weeks ago; it drew 30 people on a
snowy Saturday afternoon. In the first week of January, the Stamford branch of
the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People asked local
Haitians to come forward on the Jan. 15 birthday celebration of the Rev. Martin
Luther King and demand a better life. Five Haitians contacted Betty Saunders,
president of the N.A.A.C.P. chapter.

No one knew exactly why more Haitians did not answer the calls of either Mr.
Felican or Mrs. Saunders. Weather and communications difficulties may have
played a role. Illegal immigrants may have considered it too risky to attend a
public gathering. But Mr. Roy, the church elder, said he believed the question
simply is how much any outsider can do for the Haitians.

''I look at the Jewish people, the Italian people, what the y have
accomplished,'' he said. ''I think the Haitia ns can do that, too. Butno one can
do it for us. We must find our own leaders.'' b

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); HAITI (99%);

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (99%);

COMPANY: IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE  (84%); IMMIGRATION &
NATURALIZATION SERVICE (84%);

ORGANIZATION: IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE  (84%); IMMIGRATION &
NATURALIZATION SERVICE (84%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; CONNECTICUT; HAITI  UNITED STATES (99%); HAITI
(99%);   CONNECTICUT, USA (99%);

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION; DEPORTATION; REFUGEES
AND EXPATRIATES; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT  IMMIGRATION (95%); US FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); DEPORTATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES
(89%); LEGISLATION (89%); REFUGEES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); US
DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (74%); FAMILY
(74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); POLITICS (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (51%);

PERSON: CHRISTOPHER DODD  (92%); CHRISTOPHER DODD (92%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              216 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               January 29, 1982, Friday, Late City Final Edition

Around the World;
Two Irish Nationals Are Deported to Canada

BYLINE: Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 5, Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 130 words

DATELINE: BUFFALO, Jan. 28


Two Irish nationals were deported to Canada today after bail had been posted on
criminal charges that they attempted to enter illegally from Canada on Jan. 21.

The two men, who were turned over to Canadian Immigration officials at the Peace
Bridge here, were Owen Carron, a member of the British Parliament from Northern
Ireland, and Danny Morrison, a spokesman for Sinn Fein, political arm of the
Irish Republican Army.

In a news conference on Wednesday, they said they considered themselves
''political prisoners'' here and contended that criminal charges had been filed
on orders from the State Department to placate Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher
of Britain.

COUNTRY: CANADA (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); NORTHERN IRELAND (92%); UNITED
STATES (79%); IRELAND (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%);

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%);

CITY: BUFFALO, NY, USA (59%);

COMPANY: SINN FEIN (57%); IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY  (57%); IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY
(57%);

ORGANIZATION: SINN FEIN (57%); IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY  (57%); IRISH REPUBLICAN
ARMY (57%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; CANADA; BUFFALO (NY); IRELAND, NORTHERN  CANADA
(95%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); NORTHERN IRELAND (92%); UNITED STATES (79%);
IRELAND (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%);   NEW YORK, USA (91%);   BUFFALO, NY, USA
(59%);

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; DEPORTATION  DEPORTATION (93%); CRIMINAL
OFFENSES (90%); IMMIGRATION (88%); IMMIGRATION LAW (88%); STATE DEPARTMENTS &
FOREIGN SERVICES (87%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (86%); POLITICAL PARTIES
(86%); BRITISH PARLIAMENT (86%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (84%); PRIME MINISTERS
(84%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (84%);

PERSON: MARGARET THATCHER  (57%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              217 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              January 28, 1982, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

U.S. SAYS COAST RING IMPORTED 30 ALIENS TO WORK IN 'SLAVERY'

BYLINE: By JUDITH CUMMINGS, Speci al to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 867 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Jan. 27


Federal officials said today they had discovered a ring that illegally brought
30 people to the United States to work for wealthy residents of Los Angeles and
Beverly Hills under arrangements one official described as ''pretty close to
slavery.''

The group, described by the officials as 30 Indonesians, may include four
Spanish-speaking persons. An Indonesian official and an attorney representing
some in the group both cast doubt on the question whether they were held against
their will.
The aliens were questioned today by the Federal Bureau of In vestigation and the
Immigration and Naturalization Service after ag ents found them Tuesday in an
early-morning raid on businesses and ab out six homes.

No arrests have been made. The head of the F.B.I.'s Los Angeles office, Edgar
Best, said information on the case would be turned over to a Federal grand jury
within a week. He characterized the condition of the group at a news conference.


'Close to Slavery'

''A fair reading of it would be, if you're brought into this country, your
documentation is taken away from you, and you're put into a servitude situation,
I'd say that's pretty close to slavery,'' Mr. Best said.

A statement issued by Mr. Best's office said the investigation ''has determined
that the aliens are being allegedly sold for amounts of $1,500 to $3,000 and are
forced to remain with their 'owner' for a period of two years.''

Grand jury subpoenas have been issued to individuals suspected in conncection
with the ring, according to an F.B.I. agent involved in the investigation, but
he did not say how many.

Mr. Best said the 25 men and five women were all in their 20's and 30's.  The
authorities would not identify the residences raided. At one point, Mr. Best
described them as ''typical houses of Beverly Hills.''

The raid was conducted under criminal search warrants obtained after an 11-month
investigation by the two Federal agencies.  Mr. Best said felony charges of
violating the involuntary servitude and conspiracy laws could be lodged against
those responsible for bringing aliens into this country under such conditins.

''It's obvious to us that the people that were involved in this scheme were well
aware of what they were doing,'' he added.  But a representative of the
Indonesian Government said he doubted the Indonesians involved had been
involuntarily held by anyone.  Ngurah Swetja, the vice consul in San Francisco,
said his government was aware of the presence of the group in Los Angeles.
Consul Offers Another View

''I don't think they were held against their will,'' he said in an interview,
''because they came here as tourists.'' He suggested that the Indonesians were
in the homes of ''friends,'' and that there had been a misunderstanding. It was
''common'' in his country, he said, that ''someone visit friends in another
country and live with them as family.

''Sometimes there are problems with friends,'' he continued, ''but we never
received a complaint from our citizens that they were kept as slaves.''

In the news conference, the Federal investigators would not provide details on
the extent of the operation or the number of Americans involved. They suggested
that there might be further raids after the grand jury investigation.

''The targets are the providers, or the people who actually concocted the
scheme,'' Mr. Best said. He indicated that those who owned some of the homes
that were raided might be involved in the smuggling.

4 Said to Have Spanish Names

Manuel Araujo, a public defender representing some in the group, said in an
interview that four were not Indonesian but had Spanish surnames.

Mr. Araujo said he had spoken to them in Spanish, and that they had described a
situation that was not involuntary servitude. They said they were paid $40 to
$45 a day and offered room and board but had turned it down, Mr. Araujo said.

He said his information about the Government case was limited to Justice Depar
tment affidavits. But he said the question of involuntary s ervitude was
muddled. Many of the aliens, he said, ''intended to work here, save money and go
back home.''

Asked why the two Federal agencies would use such strong terms to describe the
situation, he replied, ''Apparently they believe they can prove their case.''

A Federal magistrate, James Penne, is to rule Thursday on a Justice Department
effort to have the aliens declared material witnesses, to be held in custody
without bond. They have been in a locked facility in Pasadena, Calif.

Operation Used Tourist Visas

Only sketchy details were offered on how the aliens were brought here and kept
in the residences and businesses. But part of the operation, it appeared,
involved the use of fraudulently obtained tourist visas.
The deputy director of the Immigration and Naturalization Service of fice here,
Omer G. Sewell, suggested that the visas had been ob tained from an American
consulate.

''The American consul was given false information in order to obtain the tourist
visas,'' he said. ''He was informed, I'm sure, that the people were going to
come only for a brief visit in the U.S.'' He also indicated that false documents
backed up the visa applications.

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); INDONESIA (96%);

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (96%);

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (95%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%);

COMPANY: THE BEVERLY HILLS HOTEL (73%);   FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
(56%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (56%);

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION  (56%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF
INVESTIGATION (56%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;BEVERLY HILLS (CALIF); CALIFORNIA; LOS ANGELES (CALIF); UNITED
STATES; INDONESIA, REPUBLIC OF  UNITED STATES (96%); INDONESIA (96%);
CALIFORNIA, USA (96%);   LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (95%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA
(79%);

SUBJECT: 028-20-02; ILLEGAL ALIENS; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION  IMMIGRATION
(90%); SLAVERY (90%); CRIMINAL FALSE IMPRISONMENT (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%);
SEARCH WARRANTS (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%);
SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); GRAND JURY (88%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (78%);
INTERVIEWS (77%); CONSPIRACY (74%); ARRESTS (74%); FELONIES (74%); LAWYERS
(73%); SUBPOENAS (73%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (71%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (70%);
PRESS CONFERENCES (67%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (60%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              218 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              January 28, 1982, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

2 I.R.A. SUPPORTERS ORDERED BY A JUDGE TO GET OUT OF U.S.

BYLINE: Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 3, Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 275 words

DATELINE: BUFFALO, Jan. 27


Two Irish nationalists, indicted on charges of trying to illegally enter the
United States from Canada, were ordered deported today by a Federal immigration
judge.

Benedict J. Ferro, regional director of the United States Immigration and
Naturalization Service here, said the two, Owen Carron, a Member of the British
Parliament, and Danny Morrison, a spokesman for Sinn Fein, political arm of the
Irish Republican Army, might be deported within 24 hours.

Earlier, both men were denied visas for illegally entering the country.  On
Tuesday, both were indicted on felony charges of presenting false papers to
Immigration Service officials in separate attempts to cross into the United
States from Canada last Thursday.

Two people who were driving the men in separate cars were also indicted for
attempted smuggling. They are Patrick Morrell of Niagara Falls, Ontario, a
naturalized Canadian of Irish birth, and Helen C.  McDonald Quigley, an
Australian living in Hamilton, Ontario.

The Imigration Service also brought civil charges against the four for trying to
enter the country illegally.  The immigration judge ruled tonight that the
Federal Government did not prove that Mr. Morrell knew that his passenger, Mr.
Carron, was trying to enter illegally and dismissed the civil charge. Mr.
Morrell returned to Canada and remains on bail on the criminal charge.
Immigration authorities adjourned the hearing involving Mrs. Quigley. She
returned to her home in Hamilton; she also remains on bail.

COUNTRY: CANADA (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); IRELAND (79%);



STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); ONTARIO, CANADA (88%);

CITY: BUFFALO, NY, USA (94%);

COMPANY: US CITIZENSHIP & IMMIGRATION SERVICES (84%); SINN FEIN (57%); IRISH
REPUBLICAN ARMY  (57%); IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY (57%);

ORGANIZATION: US CITIZENSHIP & IMMIGRATION SERVICES (84%); SINN FEIN (57%);
IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY  (57%); IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY (57%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; IRELAND, NORTHERN; BUFFALO (NY)  CANADA (96%);
UNITED STATES (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); IRELAND (79%);   NEW YORK, USA (94%);

 ONTARIO, CANADA (88%);   BUFFALO, NY, USA (94%);

SUBJECT: 028-20-14; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; DEPORTATION  IMMIGRATION (93%);
IMMIGRATION LAW (92%); DEPORTATION (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%);
INDICTMENTS (91%); LITIGATION (90%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS

 (90%); JUDGES (78%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); BAIL
(75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (73%); DECISIONS &
RULINGS (73%); SMUGGLING (73%); FELONIES (73%); BRITISH PARLIAMENT (57%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              219 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               January 26, 1982, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

DOUBLED QUOTA FROM MEXICO AND CANADA SOUGHT

BYLINE: UPI

SECTION: Section A; Page 10, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 539 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 25


The Reagan Administration, eager to improve relations with neighboring
countries, today proposed doubling to 40,000 a year each the number of legal
immigrants to the United States from Canada and Mexico.

The announcement, expected to please and benefit Mexico particularly, was
coupled with warnings by officials of the State and Justice Departments against
imposing rigid Congressional ceilings on immigrants or on political refugees.

Assistant Secretary of State Diego C. Asencio told the Senate Subcommittee on
Immigration and Refugee Policy that the higher figures for Mexico and Canada
were the only changes proposed for United States immigration and refugee quotas.

The current worldwide immigration ceiling is 270,000 a year to the United
States, including 20,000 each from Canada and Mexico. With the doubling of those
two quotas, the total ceiling would rise to 310,000.

Alan Nelson, deputy commissioner of the Justice Department's Immigration and
Naturalization Service, said the net addition of 40,000 would not add
significantly to the 550,000 immigrants and refugees expected to enter the
United States in the current year.

'Special and Unique Ties'

Mr. Asencio said the proposal for Mexico an d Canada ''takes into account the
very special and unique ties - so cial, economic and cultural - which exist
between the United Sta tes and its two contiguous neighbors.''

These increases, he said, ''reflect our close relationships with both while
providing an additional opportunity to reduce or deter illegal immigration by
opening a supplementary channel for legal immigration to the United States.''

As explained by Mr. Asencio, the higher quotas for the two countries would
definitely benefit Mexico because if either of the two countries does not use
all of its 40,000 quota, the unused portion would go automatically to the other
country.

He said that only an estimated 15,000 Canadians were expected to emigrate to the
United States, meaning the remaining 25,000 openings would be available to
Mexicans.

While there is no fixed, permanent numerical limitation on refugee admissions,
there is the annual 140,000-limitation set by the Administration for the fiscal
year 1982 at the urging of Congress.  The Administration proposed a 173,000
limit.

The 1982 limit for refugee admissions is down from 217,000 in 1981 and 231,700
in 1980.

Overall Ceilings Opposed

Mr. Nelson said that, despite the ceilings of 140,000 refugees fleeing political
repression and 310,000 immigrants, the Administration opposed an overall cap on
both categories as ''impractical, not in the interests of the American people,
and restricting Presidential authority to respond to certain foreign policy
crises.''

This was echoed by Mr. Asencio, who also cautioned Congress against ''imposing a
rigid ceiling which could inhibit the President's ability to respond to changing
foreign and domestic circumstances.''

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); MEXICO (98%); CANADA (94%); NORTH AMERICA (94%);

COMPANY: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE  (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (56%);

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE  (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (56%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; CANADA; MEXICO  UNITED STATES (98%); MEXICO (98%);
CANADA (94%); NORTH AMERICA (94%);

SUBJECT: 026-20-33; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; QUOTAS  IMMIGRATION (95%);
FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); REFUGEES (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); US PRESIDENTS
(89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); JUSTICE
DEPARTMENTS (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); FOREIGN POLICY (76%); ILLEGAL
IMMIGRANTS (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (70%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              220 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               January 24, 1982, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

Index;
International

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 2, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 572 words


A night at Rowena's, a speak- easy in Soweto 3
West German leaders at odds with local party organization 3
Britons are outraged over 3 rape cases 4
Around the World 5
Report says Pakista n will soon be able to detonate nuclear device 6
Persian Gulf group will try to coordinate regional policies 7
U.S. not offering refuge to all 50,000 Poles in Austria 11
Pravda acknowledges that Polish leaders face ''big difficulties'' 12
NATO calls Polish situation worse and warns of sanctions 12
U.S. plans long recess of Madrid talks over Polish crackdown 13
60 Egyptian students visit Israel in first cultural exchange 14
Americans in Egypt record the past for the future 15

Government/Politics
Immigration agency enjoined on Hispanic-American searches 22
Massachusetts debates correc- tional institutions for juveniles 23
The feisty image of Senator Haya- kawa has been dimmed 24
Special prosecutor in Donovan case beginning inquiry 28
Ethics panel to review issue of loan made to Carey's top aide 30

General
Around the Nation 20
Court suggests share in future earnings in divorce 20
(1:1.)
World Airways DC-10 skids into Boston Harbor, 11 missing 21
Human errors blamed in capital subway crash 24
Record snowfall from two storms paralyzes Minnesota 33
Witness recants testimony that helped convict 3 of murder 34
Vista International Hotel bring- ing new life to downtown area 38

Health/Science
Biologists seek to save California condor 18

Education/Welfare
Bar group again faces debate on Oral Roberts law school 25

Arts/Entertainment
The Juilliard Orchestra plays at Alice Tully Hall 46
Music debuts in review 46
Beethoven's piano and cello works performed 46
New York Repertory Dance Com- pany recall s 30's and 40's 47

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); EGYPT (92%); SOUTH AFRICA (92%); POLAND (90%);
AUSTRIA (88%); ISRAEL (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%);

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); INDIAN OCEAN (88%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%);

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%);

COMPANY: GULF GROUP FOR MECHANICAL & ELECTRICAL WORKS (58%); GULF GROUP HOLDING
CO WLL (58%);   NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION  (83%);

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION  (83%);

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); EGYPT (92%); SOUTH AFRICA (92%); POLAND (90%);
AUSTRIA (88%); ISRAEL (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%);   MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%);
INDIAN OCEAN (88%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%);   BOSTON, MA, USA (79%);

SUBJECT: 024-20-10; NO INDEX TERMS  TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); SEX OFFENSES (77%);
SEXUAL ASSAULT (77%); WITNESSES (77%); SCIENCE NEWS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%);
ETHICS (76%); WEATHER (74%); LAWYERS (74%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (74%); HISPANIC
AMERICANS (74%); TESTIMONY (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (72%); IMMIGRATION (69%);
GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (69%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (69%); BIOLOGY (64%);

 MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (63%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: contents

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              221 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               January 24, 1982, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

IMMIGRATION AGENCY CURBED IN SEARCH ES FOR ALIENS

BYLINE: By NATHANIEL SHEPPARD Jr., Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 22, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 784 words

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Jan. 23


A Federal district judge here has permanently enjoined the Immigration and
Naturalization Service from surrounding or invading factories and homes and then
forcibly interrogating Hispanic Americans on the status of their citizenship.

But the judge, Prentice Marshall, refused to enjoin the Federal agency from
randomly stopping and interrogating Hispanic Americans on the street, saying the
legality of this practice would have to be resolved at trial. Judge Marshall
said a trial date would be set on Jan. 27.

The judge's actions Wednesday grew out of an eight-year-old lawsuit filed by the
Illinois Migrant Council, a private, nonprofit corporation, and eight defendants
who said they had been harassed, abused and in some instances improperly
arrested by immigration agents looking for illegal aliens.

In 1975 a preliminary injunction was issued prohibiting the service from
entering residences of Mexicans or Spanish-surnamed people without valid
warrants to search or arrest them or without probable cause to enter without
such warrants unless the occupants voluntarily let them in.

Other Provisions of Injunction

The injunction also enjoined the agents from arresting, stopping, detaining or
interrogating Hispanic Americans by force, without valid search or arrest
warrants, or without reasonable suspicion based on specific facts that they were
illegal aliens unlawfully in the United States. The injunction allows the agents
to question Hispanic Americans publicly about their citizenship if they
volunteer to be questioned and are not coerced. The ruling covers the Northern
District of Illinois, which is served by Judge Marshall.

The case has dragged on largely because of appeals by the immigration service.
The permanent injunction binds the service to the same restrictions as the
preliminary injunction with the exception of street searches.  The plaintiffs
and defendants dispute whether the street interrogations are conducted as a
result of voluntary cooperation or detention and coercion.

Judge Marshall said both sides had presented evidence to support their
contentions but that neither had been convincing and therefore the issue must be
resolved at trial.

Edward J. Moran, an Assistant United States Attorney, and Theodore L. Giorgetti,
assistant district director for the immigration service, refused comment on
Judge Marshall's ruling.

Voluntary Cooperation Disputed

In its efforts to justify its ''area control'' sweeps of homes and factories,
the immigration service contended that the operations were conducted only with
the voluntary cooperation of those at the premises and that its agents did not
force anyone to remain on the premises.

Judge Marshall said he found thi s assertion ''inherently incredible'' and
without ''support in the stipulated facts'' in the case.

He said, however, that there existed ''a genuine issue of material fact'' on the
issue of street interrogations. ''Each side has submitted evidence which
supports its view of what the I.N.S. policy and practice actually are; neither
side's evidence is conclusive.  Since the evidence is in conflict, this question
must be resolved at trial.''

The plaintiffs alleged that they and other Hispanic Americans ''have been
subjected to numerous interrogations'' by immigration agents ''on public
streets, in their work places, and in their homes'' and that many of these
incidents ''led to detentions and arrests although they were citizens or
permanent residents of the U.S.''

Two years ago, a Federal judge in California issued an injunction against the
agency similar to the injunction issued in Chicago Tuesday. But the legality of
the agency's policy of random street interrogations of persons who appear to be
of Hispanic descent, which has become a heated issue in Hispanic American
communities around the country, has not been reviewed by a Federal court. The
forthcoming trial on the issue here would provide the first test of what the
agency considers an important tool in identifying illegal aliens.

The immigration agency temporarily halted the street encounters in 1980 at the
request of the Bureau of the Census, whose officials argued that the
interrogations made it even more difficult for census takers to get an accurate
count of Hispanic-Americans. The street interrogations have now resumed.

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%);

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (92%);

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%);

COMPANY: IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE  (91%); IMMIGRATION &
NATURALIZATION SERVICE (91%);

ORGANIZATION: IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE  (91%); IMMIGRATION &
NATURALIZATION SERVICE (91%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES  UNITED STATES (96%);   ILLINOIS, USA (92%);
CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%);

SUBJECT: 024-20-49; SPANISH-SPEAKING GROUPS (US); IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION;
LAW AND LEGISLATION; CITIZENSHIP; SEARCH AND SEIZURE  IMMIGRATION (93%);
INJUNCTIONS (93%); JUDGES (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ARRESTS (90%);
PROBABLE CAUSE (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); SEARCH & SEIZURE (90%);
DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); ARREST WARRANTS (90%);
SEARCH WARRANTS (78%); LITIGATION (78%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (78%); NONPROFIT
ORGANIZATIONS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (76%); LAWYERS
(75%); SUITS & CLAIMS (71%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (68%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              222 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              January 23, 1982, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

2 I.R.A. SUPPORTERS RRMAIN IN CUSTODY

BYLINE: Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 3, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 630 words

DATELINE: BUFFALO, Jan. 22


Two prominent Irish republican activists remained in c ustody here today after
trying to enter the United States illega lly from Canada in separate cars.

The men, Owen Carron, a Member of the British Parliament, and Danny Morrison,
identified as public relations director of Sinn Fein, the political arm of the
Irish Republican Army, were arrested Thursday night. Mr. Carron was seized at
the Whirlpool Bridge in Niagara Falls, which carries traffic from Niagara Falls,
Ontario; Mr. Morrison, at the Peace Bridge in Buffalo, which carries traffic
from Fort Erie, Ontario.

According to Benedict J. Ferro, district director of the United States
Immigration and Naturalization Service in Buffalo, Mr. Carron and Mr. Morrison
were on their way to a dinner tonight in Astoria, Queens, sponsored by the Irish
Northern Aid Committee.

Both were charged with making false statements to Immigration and Naturalization
Service officials. The charge is punishable by up to five years in prison.

Two Canadians Also Seized

Officials said Mr. Carron had identified himself at the bridge as having
landed-immigrant status in Canada and showed a driver's license that was not
his. Mr. Morrison, officials said, had reportedly showed border authorities a
Canadian citizenship certificate that belonged to someone else.

In addition, two people who were said to have been driving the two activists
across the border were charged with attempted smuggling, according to Roger P.
Williams, interim United States Attorney here.  They could receive as much as
two years in prison if convicted.

They were identified as Patrick Morrell, reported to be an Irish native who is a
naturalized Canadian citizen living in Niagara Falls, Ontario, who was driving
Mr. Carron, and Helen McDonald Quigley, an Australian citizen, who is a resident
of Hamilton, Ontario.

All four were brought before Magistrate Edmund F. Maxwell, who set a preliminary
hearing for 2 P.M. Tuesday and set $10,000 recognizance bond for each of the
four. They were then turned over to the Immigration and Naturalization Service.
No date was set for a civil hearing on their status, according to the
immigration agency.  Normally, this hearing is held after the criminal charges
are disposed of.

2 Claim to Be Political Prisoners

Immigration agency officials declined to say where the four would be held.  Both
Mr. Carron and Mr. Morrison claimed to be political prisoners when they appeared
without lawyers before Magistrate Maxwell.  Mr. Ferro said the immigration
agency was waiting for the two to try to enter the country. He said the American
border authorities had been watching a pattern of Irish republican activists
traveling in Canada during an 18-month investigation.

''This investigation made us aware they would be coming,'' he said, adding that
a special immigration agency squad was waiting at the border crossing when the
attempts were made.

---- 'Publicity Stunt,' Paisley Says

LONDON, Jan. 22 (AP) - The Rev. Ian Paisley, the militant Northern Ireland
Protestant leader, said today that the arrest of two Roman Catholic Irish
nationalists in the United States was ''all a publicity stunt.''

''It doesn't suprise me at all,'' Mr. Paisley said without elaboration.  Mr.
Paisley made the remarks to reporters upon returning from a weeklong visit to
Canada to publicize the Protestant position in Northern Ireland and combat Irish
Republican Army sentiment.

Mr. Paisley said his trip to Canada was an ''outstanding success.'' ''What I had
to say was carried on more than 800 radio and television networks,'' said the
55-year-old Protestant leader, who is a Member of the British and European
Parliaments.

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); IRELAND (79%);

 NORTHERN IRELAND (79%);

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); ONTARIO, CANADA (91%);

CITY: BUFFALO, NY, USA (94%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%);

COMPANY: US CITIZENSHIP & IMMIGRATION SERVICES (83%); SINN FEIN (58%); IRISH
REPUBLICAN ARMY  (58%); IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY (58%);

ORGANIZATION: US CITIZENSHIP & IMMIGRATION SERVICES (83%); SINN FEIN (58%);
IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY  (58%); IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY (58%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;BUFFALO (NY); UNITED STATES; IRELAND, NORTHERN  UNITED STATES
(95%); CANADA (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); IRELAND (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND
(79%);   NEW YORK, USA (94%); ONTARIO, CANADA (91%);   BUFFALO, NY, USA (94%);
LONDON, ENGLAND (79%);

SUBJECT: 023-20-12; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT
IMMIGRATION (92%); MAGISTRATES (89%); JAIL SENTENCING (89%); US FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (87%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICAL
PARTIES (78%); POLITICS (78%); BRITISH PARLIAMENT (77%); ARRESTS (76%); CRIMINAL
CONVICTIONS (76%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (76%); BORDER CONTROL (76%); TERRITORIAL &
NATIONAL BORDERS (75%); NATURALIZATION (75%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%);
TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (72%); BAIL (71%); SMUGGLING (71%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: photo of Owen Carron in Buffalo courthouse

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              223 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              January 23, 1982, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

POLICE AIDE ON COAST SAYS SPIES MAY POSE AS JEWISH EMIGR ES

SECTION: Section 1; Page 8, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 192 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Jan. 22


Daryl Gates, the Los Angeles police chief, said today that intelligence reports
indicated the Soviet Union was sending ''dangerous criminals'' to this country,
posing as Jewish emigres and that they might attempt to disrupt the 1984 Summer
Olympic Games here.

In a report distributed to business leaders and news executives, Mr. Gates noted
that the annual quota for immigration of Soviet Jews was recently increased to
50,000 a year and said that investigators had determined that some immigrants
entering this country under the quota were not Jewish.

''Many knowledgeable people,'' he said, ''are of the opinion that the Soviets
are selecting dangerous criminals and sending them to the United States as
refugees via the Jewish immigraion quota. The Soviets realize they can aggravate
our already serious crime problem in this manner. Intelligence agents and spies
are infiltrating in the same way.''

Mr. Gates later said at a news conference that the report was speculation but
that he ''saw nothing in here so out of line it shouldn't have been stated.''

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%);

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%);

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%);

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (UN)  UNITED NATIONS  (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%);

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN)  UNITED NATIONS  (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES  UNITED STATES (94%);   CALIFORNIA, USA (94%);   LOS
ANGELES, CA, USA (94%);

SUBJECT: 023-20-43; JEWS; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; ON OF SOVIET SOCIALIST
REPUBLICS; ESPIONAGE  POLICE FORCES (90%); IMMIGRATION (90%); JEWS & JUDAISM
(90%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (90%); ESPIONAGE (90%); REFUGEES (87%);
INVESTIGATIONS (78%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (74%); OLYMPICS (73%); PRESS
CONFERENCES (71%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (57%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              224 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               January 22, 1982, Friday, Late City Final Edition

2 I.R.A. LEADERS ARRESTED WHILE TRYING TO ENTER U.S. ILLEGALLY

BYLINE: By LES LEDBETTER

SECTION: Section A; Page 3, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 600 words


Two leaders of the Irish Republican Army - in what appeared to be a coordinated
effort to reach New York City in time for a fundraising dinner tonight - were
arrested in separate incidents last night as each was trying to cross into the
United States illegally from Canada, the Immigration and Naturalization Service
said.

One of the arrested I.R.A. leaders, Owen Carron, is a recently elected member of
the British Parliament who last summer was refused a visa to enter the United
States because of his support for violence in Northern Ireland.

Mr. Carron, an unemployed high school teacher who has been identified as a
hard-line republican, was elected to Parliament in August to replace Robert
Sands, the I.R.A. official who won the seat in April while on a fatal hunger
strike in Maze Prison outside Belfast.

The other I.R.A. official who was arrested was identified by the Immigration
Service as Danny Morrison, the I.R.A.'s director of public relations.

Irish Panel Denounces Arrests

The arrests were denounced early this morning by the Irish Northern Aid
Committee as ''censorship'' by the United States State Department ''at the
request of the British'' to prevent Mr. Carron and Mr. Morrison from speaking at
a testimonial dinner in New York City this evening.

A statement issued by the committee said, ''The State Department has apparently
decided at the request of the British that free speech does not apply to those
who oppose the British presence in the north of Ireland.''

The committee said that while it ''no advance knowledge'' of the attempts at
illegal entry into the United States, ''it is obvious that both m en intended to
speak'' at the dinn er and ''to confront'' a loyalist group currently in this
country.  The spokesman for the group would not elaborate.

Antismuggling experts in the Immigration Service had been aware ofthe presence
of the two I.R.A. officials in Canada, according to officials of the Federal
agency, and it was expected that they would make attempts to reach New York City
before the dinner.

Mr. Carron, believed to be 29 years old, was arrested along with a Canadian man
shortly before 9 P.M. as they tried to cross into the United States at Niagara
Falls, said Benedict Ferro, district director for the Buffalo office of the
Immigration Service.

At about the same time, Mr. Morrison, was arrested along with a Canadian
national as they tried to enter the United States across the Peace Bridge in
Buffalo, Mr. Ferro said.

Mr. Carron falsely told immigration officers in Niagra Falls that he had landed
immigrant status in Canada, permitting him to enter without a visa, according to
Mr. Ferro. Mr. Morrison presented officers in Buffalo with a Canadian
citizenship certificate that was not his, he said.

'We Knew They Would Try'

Alerted by members of the service's antismuggling squad, the border officers
were waiting for the two Irishmen and arrested them and their companions.

''We had the information for days and knew they would try,'' Mr.  Ferro
explained in a telephone interview.  All four men were arrested on criminal and
administrative charges in connection with giving false information and attempted
smuggling, according to Mr. Ferro. He said they would be held in upstate jails
while it was determined whether to try them on the charges or initiate
deportation proceedings.

COUNTRY: CANADA (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); NORTHERN
IRELAND (92%); IRELAND (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%);

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%);

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); BUFFALO, NY, USA (93%); BELFAST, NORTHERN IRELAND

 (58%);

COMPANY: IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY  (91%); IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY (91%);

ORGANIZATION: IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY  (91%); IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY (91%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; CANADA  CANADA (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); UNITED
KINGDOM (94%); NORTHERN IRELAND (92%); IRELAND (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%);   NEW
YORK, USA (94%);   NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); BUFFALO, NY, USA (93%); BELFAST,
NORTHERN IRELAND (58%);

SUBJECT: 022-20-13; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION  IMMIGRATION (91%); ARRESTS
(90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); FUNDRAISING (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS
(89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); IMMIGRATION LAW (89%); PASSPORTS & VISAS
(77%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (77%); BRITISH PARLIAMENT (76%); SMUGGLING
(72%); CENSORSHIP (70%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (66%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL
TEACHERS (55%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              225 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               January 19, 1982, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

2 EXILE COMMUNITIES PROTEST IN MIAMI

BYLINE: By GREGORY JAYNES, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 18, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1107 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Jan. 18


Protest has at times seemed the lifeblood of Miami's Latin community, which now
makes up 58 percent of the city's population, but until this weekend no protest
had been marked by violence, nor, according to participants in a Saturday night
demonstration, had there been such a sense of personal loss.

About 3,000 Cubans turned out to protest the deportation of a Cuban stowaway
last week, the first time in the years of local Cuban gains that the United
States has shipped a Cuban refugee to Havana.  At the same time, another
volatile and growing ethnic presence in Miami, the 20,000-strong Haitian
community, was on the streets because it, too, had suffered a loss: A tiny,
locally launched attempt to overthrow the Haitian Government had failed
miserably, and most of its participants were under Federal arrest.

Failed to Prove His Case

In the Cuban case, the State Department found last week that Andres Rodriguez
Hernandez, a 20-year-old Cuban discovered aboard a Panamanian freighter in
Miami, had failed to prove a ''well-founded fear of persecution,'' the criterion
under which political asylum is granted or denied under present immigration
policy. Mr. Hernandez was deported to Havana Friday. He was the first Cuban sent
back since Fidel Castro took power in 1959.

The deportation had two effects locally. It defused a legal argument by Haitian
advocates that the United States was discriminating against refugees from
nations that are friendly, such as Haiti, while going to great lengths to
accommodate refugees from unfriendly nations, such as Cuba. The other effect was
to put the flame to a fuse in the Cuban community, which saw the decision as
barring friends and relatives who might try to flee here.

About 3,000 demonstrators began the protest on Calle Ocho, or Eighth Street,
Saturday night. At the end, stones, bottles and tear gas canisters were flying,
34 persons were arrested and charges of police brutality were made. At a special
meeting of the five-member Miami City Commission Sunday, the police said the
violence began after the protesters, who did not have a permit for a
demonstration, were told to disperse. Participants said the demonstration had
been peaceful until police officers moved against them with tear gas.

They Vote to Write Reagan

The commission, of which three members are Hispanic, voted to write the White
House condemning the deportation of the Cuban and to ask the Justice Department
to investigate to see whether the police used undue force. The city's only black
commissioner, Miller Dawkins, explained to the protesters that the Federal
Government ''cannot allow the Cubans to stay while it sends all the Haitians
back.'' ''That is why they sent this man back,'' he said.

A local columnist, Roberto Fabricio, observ ed in his weekly column in The Miami
Herald this morning: ''Cubans ha ve grown accustomed to seeing Miami and the
rest of the United State s as the lifeboat they have traditionally climbed
aboard. The deport ation of Rodriguez Hernandez is symbolic of the end of an
era. B itterness bordering on despair is a mild description of the resultin g
feeling.''

Among Haitians, who number 20,000, the feeling was not dissimilar, according to
leaders. A hapless coup attempt ended last week and 25 of the invaders, picked
up from a sinking boat, were brought back to Miami Sunday by the Coast Guard.

He Had Leaflets Dropped

For months, Bernard Sansaricq, a Haitian and an operator of a Shell service
station in Broward County, north of Miami, had been talking about the invasion.
In October, Mr. Sansaricq has acknowledged, he had a plane fly over
Port-au-Prince, the Haitian capital, dropping leaflets denouncing President
Jean-Claude Duvalier and announcing a coming invasion.

Earlier this month rumors flew that t he invasion was imminent, and Mr.
Sansaricq , who came to this country after participating in an abortive atte mpt
to overthrow the Haitian regime in 1963, went to theisland of Sou th Caicos, 90
miles north of Haiti, to prepare for the strike. On Su nday, Jan. 10, the
37-year-old revolutionary left the island in a 3 5-foot boat with 24 followers.
The day before, at least nine other Sa nsaricq followers went by seaplane to the
island of Tortuga, off Haiti's northwest coast, where they were captured.

On Tuesday, Jan. 12, the Haitian Government announced that three of the nine had
''succumbed to their wounds.'' Last Wednesday, the Sansaricq vessel, a sloop
called the Caicos Cloud, was intercepted by the Coast Guard cutter Gallatin,
which had picked up radio distress calls. The vessel was leaking and her engine
was stalled. A Coast Guard spokesman said they had been ''floating around
seasick for a couple of days.''

Two Others Also Charged

Sunday Mr. Sansaricq was brought back to Miami charged with violating the United
States Neutrality Act for leading an expedition against another nation.
Conviction carries a maximum penalty of three years in prison and a $3,000 fine.
Two of his followers were also charged with violating the Neutrality Act, and
the others were being held as material witnesses.

About 200 Haitians demonstrated outside the Coast Guard base here Sunday,
shouting words of praise for Mr. Sansaricq. As he was brought in for an initial
appearance before a magistrate this morning, another throng of Haitian
supporters gathered. Some participants at these and other demonstrations said
many of Miami's Haitians had worked themselves into a state of unrealistic
optimism, to the point that they believed success was at hand.

Mr. Sansaricq was ordered released on a personal bond of $400,000, and Milo
Gousse, a 37-year-old geography instructor in Montreal, and Phillipe Carre, a
32-year-old employee of a security system in Montreal, were ordered released on
$100,000 signature bonds, pending trial.
----

Murder Count Dropped in '80 Riots

MIAMI, Jan. 18 (AP) - The state dropped murder charges today against William
Paul Hembree, the only white accused of killing a black in the race riots here
in May 1980.

Defense attorneys said they convinced the state that it was a case of mistaken
identity. Assistant State Attorney Leonard Glick, who was to prosecute Mr.
Hembree in the killing of 38-year-old Lugene Brown, said, ''We cannot in good
faith proceed to trial.''

Mr. Hembree, 35, remained in the Dade County Jail on charges of parole
violation. He was arrested last August after the police were told that he had
boasted of shooting a black man in Liberty City on May 18, 1980.

COUNTRY: HAITI (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); CUBA (94%);

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (94%);

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (94%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; HAITI; CUBA; MIAMI (FLA); FLORIDA  HAITI (97%);
UNITED STATES (94%); CUBA (94%);   FLORIDA, USA (94%);   MIAMI, FL, USA (94%);

SUBJECT: 019-20-35; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; ILLEGAL ALIENS; POLITICS AND
GOVERNMENT; UNITED STATE INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS
DEPORTATION (91%); IMMIGRATION (90%); REFUGEES (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%);
PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); POPULATION SIZE (90%); ARRESTS (88%); LAW
ENFORCEMENT (88%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (78%); CITIES (78%);

 CITY LIFE (78%); RIOTS (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (76%); POLITICAL ASYLUM
(76%); DISCRIMINATION (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%);
STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); POLITICS
(66%);

PERSON: FIDEL CASTRO (55%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: photo of Miami police arresting demonstrators

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              226 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               January 18, 1982, Monday, Late City Final Edition

BRIEFING

BYLINE: By Francis X. Clines and Bernard Weinraub

SECTION: Section A; Page 14, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 925 words


W HEN martial law was declared in Poland, a number of Polish tourists and
professionals visiting in this country became, in effect, frozen in their
tracks, not seeking refugee status but not wanting to return home until they had
a clearer idea of the crisis.

This morning, representatives of the Polish American Congress are to meet with
officials of the Immigration and Naturalization Service to see whether some
temporary permits might be arranged so that these Poles can earn a living here
while lingering and deciding whether to go back.

''It's a very unusual situation, a very human problem,'' said Zdzislaw
Dziekonski, the Washington representative of the congress, who is careful in
discussing the situation. ''We've already been assured that there'll be no
deportations, but they have to survive while they are stranded here.''

W ITH more than 40 Congressional Democrats and dozens of other party faithful
signed up for the Franklin Delano Roosevelt dinner Feb. 1 in New York, the
Democratic National Committee is considering heading out in F.D.R. style from
the capital - aboard a chartered railroad train full of politicians toward the
$500-a-plate whistle stop at the Waldorf-Astoria.

The Roosevelt centennial dinner i s one of the first major projects of the
commit tee's new regional office in New York, and a heavy contingent is booked
from Washing ton, in part, according t o a spokesman, because Democrats are
''angered by Reaganists' blasphemoususe of F.D.R.'s words and resolve to
recapture the memory of the great leader.''

A FTER the niceties were out of the way at an informal encounter with some
reporters the other day, the Director of Central Intelligence bluntly sought
some intelligence.

''Why is the press dumping on me?'' asked William J. Casey, chief of the C.I.A.
A reporter, with a good memory for past encounters between those who are paid to
keep secrets private and those paid to make them public, replied, ''At least
nobody's written that Casey is stupid or crazy, the way one of your predecessors
was described.''

Mr. Casey took this with a genteel harrumph, then said, ''Well, I guess I should
mark that as a plus.''

I F there is a ranking expert on liquor in Washington - and an enormous marathon
of contenders could be readily assembled outside the capital's expense-account
haunts - that expert is one of the most pleasantly sober of men, Milton S.
Kronheim.

He is a 93-year-old liquor wholesaler who for decades has debated public issues
of the day in congenial luncheons at his office with old and new friends in
Government. At one such forum, his own specialty came up with the news that
President Reagan was considering doubling ''sin taxes,'' including the Federal
excise on liquor.

''That would be a mistake,'' Mr. Kronheim told a friend. ''A vicious chain of
events would follow. Doubling the present $10.50-agallon tax would mean a
decline in consumption and revenues and at the same time make it worthwhile for
the illegal people, the bootleggers, to make a comeback, the same as the
cigarette bootleggers have been doing with all the extra cigarette taxes.''

Mr. Kronheim was speaking from an interest in the liquor business that extends
back to 1903, with time away from it, he stressed, in Prohibition. How, he
asked, would a bootlegging threat fit in with the Administration's decision to
disassemble the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms? He did not know whether
the White House was considering this.''I am not a lobbyist,'' he said.

N ORMALLY there seems to be an unbridgeable gulf between the vast, amorphous
budget decisions made in Washington and their everyday effects beyond the banks
of the Potomac. But for a moment during the turmoil that swept the city after
the fatal plane crash last Wednesday, a connection was attempted.

An officer of the National Parks Service involved in the helicopter rescue of
survivors had made a point of saying that the service was down to one copter but
had more before the budget cuts.  The one craft so quickly at the scene
performed heroically, ferrying five survivors to shore, but returning too late
for a sixth. More survivors afloat, the officer implied, would have further
frustrated the rescue.

Secretary of the Interior James G. Watt was furious that evening when this point
was brought up by a reporter who saw him at a cocktail party.

''Jiminy Crickets, I can't believe you're asking that question,'' he said. ''I
saw men risking their lives. That's where your attention should be.''

''Mr. Secretary, I'm asking the question,'' the reporter repeated.  ''Could they
have done more if they had more equipment?'' ''I have no idea,'' Mr. Watt said.
''Maybe there wasn't room for two helicopters.'' Francis X. Clines Bernard
Weinraub

INDUSTRY: NAICS813940 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (55%); SIC8651 POLITICAL
ORGANIZATIONS (55%);

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); POLAND (90%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%);

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%);

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (55%);   DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE
(55%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (55%);

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE  (55%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL
COMMITTEE (55%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;POLAND; UNITED STATES  UNITED STATES (94%); POLAND (90%); CENTRAL
EUROPE (73%);   NEW YORK, USA (92%);

SUBJECT: 018-20-37; REFUGEES AND EXPATRIATES; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION
REFUGEES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); TALKS &
MEETINGS (78%); IMMIGRATION (77%); DEPORTATION (72%); US PRESIDENTS (67%);
BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (60%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE WHOLESALERS (60%); TRAINS (52%);

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (50%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              227 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               January 17, 1982, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

Around the Nation;
Stowaway's Deportation Is Protested in Miami

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 22, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 160 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Jan. 16


The police broke up a rowdy demonstration at the federal immigration offices
today as about 1,000 chanting Cuban exiles protested the deportation of a
20-year-old Cuban stowaway. At least six people were arrested.

The demonstrators left after 90 minutes of shouting. About 60 officers cordoned
off a one-block area surrounding the Federal Immigration and Naturalization
Service building when demonstrators began running through the streets at 3:30
P.M. Beverly McFarland, a spokesman for the immigration service, said the
demonstrators apparently began running when a woman fell and hurt herself. Some
demonstrators said she had been pushed by the police.

Andres Rodriguez Hernandez was sent back to Cuba Friday, two days after he
arrived in Miami as a stowaway aboard a Panamanianregistered freighter.

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%);

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (93%);

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (93%);

COMPANY: IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE  (57%); IMMIGRATION &
NATURALIZATION SERVICE (57%);

ORGANIZATION: IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE  (57%); IMMIGRATION &
NATURALIZATION SERVICE (57%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIAMI (FLA); CUBA  UNITED STATES (93%);   FLORIDA, USA (93%);
MIAMI, FL, USA (93%);

SUBJECT: 017-20-53; DEPORTATION  DEPORTATION (93%); IMMIGRATION (92%); PROTESTS
& DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); ANTI-CASTRO CUBANS (90%); ARRESTS (73%);

PERSON: ANDRES RODRIGUEZ  (56%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              228 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              January 16, 1982, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

Around the Nation;
U.S. Deports First Cuban Since Castro Took Over

BYLINE: UPI

SECTION: Section 1; Page 7, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 133 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Jan. 15


A man believed to be the first Cuban refugee ever to be deported from the United
States to Havana under the Castro regime was flown to Havana today, the
Immigration and Naturalization Service said.

Andres Rodriguez Hernandez, 20 years old, was returned to Cuba after

National news apears on

pages 7-10 and 15.
the agency turned down his application for asylum. He was sent back on a
previously scheduled American Airways tourist charter.

''He failed to prove a well-founded fear of persecution on the basis of race,
creed, political opinion or political activity,'' said Beverly McFarland, a
spokesman for the immigration agency.

Mr. Rodriguez, a stowaway on a Panamanian ship, sailed into Miami Wednesday
morning.

COUNTRY: CUBA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%);

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (57%);

COMPANY: IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE  (84%); IMMIGRATION &
NATURALIZATION SERVICE (84%);

ORGANIZATION: IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE  (84%); IMMIGRATION &
NATURALIZATION SERVICE (84%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; CUBA  CUBA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%);   MIAMI, FL,
USA (57%);

SUBJECT: 016-20-30; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; ILLEGAL ALIENS  IMMIGRATION
(92%); REFUGEES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); NATURALIZATION (90%);
DEPORTATION (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (88%); POLITICAL ASYLUM (88%); CITIZENSHIP

 (85%);

PERSON: ANDRES RODRIGUEZ  (73%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              229 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               January 15, 1982, Friday, Late City Final Edition

EXILED SOUTH AFRICAN ALLOWED TO SEEK ASYLUM

BYLINE: Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 2, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 396 words

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Jan. 14


Dennis Brutus, the exiled South African poet and scholar who has been ruled
''deportable'' because of an expired visa, received a temporary reprieve today.

A United States immigration judge, Irving Schwartz, gave him 20 days to seek
political asylum in this country. The petition will be submitted to the State
Department for advice, a process that generally takes at least 30 days.

When the State Department advisory opinion is returned to Judge Schwartz, a
hearing will take up whether Professor Brutus will be granted asylum, have his
visa extended, leave the country voluntarily or be deported. In addition,
according to Robert Vinikoor, a lawyer for the United States Immigration and
Naturalization Service, ''It should be stated on record where Brutus should be
sent,'' in the event of deportation.

Professor Brutus's attorney, H. Nasif Mahmoud, had asked that his home be
defined by the court as South Africa. But, Mr. Vinikoor said, ''We do not intend
to designate South Africa, but rather Zimbabwe, the country of his birth, from
which he holds a passport.''

Mr. Mahmoud asserted that his client's life would be in danger in Zimbabwe. He
said that terrorists employed by South Africa are at work there; he cited the
murder of a South African nationalist, Joe Gqabi, in July 1981.

In the meantime, Mr. Brutus, a senior professor of African literature in the
Northwestern University English department, is free to return to Amherst
College, where he is spending a sabbatical year as a visiting writer.

In the 20-minute hearing, much time was spent in argument on the professor's
sojurn at Amherst while claiming residency at Northwestern. Judge Schwartz
repeatedly demanded to know why no mention of the sabbatical had been made at a
hearing in November.

In tones of exasperation, the judge read from the November transcript. But his
expression changed as Mr. Mahmoud said that a passage marked ''unintelligible''
referred to Amherst College. The Judge smiled, and said, ''I take it back.''

Mr. Mahmoud called the hearing ''a victory in that Dennis didn't get thrown out,
but it's a short-lived victory be-

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); ZIMBABWE (92%);

COMPANY: SOUTH AFRICAN BANK OF ATHENS LTD (92%); SOUTH AFRICAN EXPRESS AIRWAYS
LTD (92%); SOUTH AFRICAN STEVEDORES LTD (92%); SOUTH AFRICAN BELTING LTD (92%);
SOUTH AFRICAN BIAS METALS & PLASTICS LTD (92%); SOUTH AFRICAN PETROLEUM INDUSTRY
ASSOCIATION (92%); SOUTH AFRICAN RAIL COMMUTER CORP (92%); SOUTH AFRICAN FINE
WORSTEDS LTD (92%); SOUTH AFRICAN MOTOR CORP LTD (92%); SOUTH AFRICAN RESERVE
BANK (92%); SOUTH AFRICAN NATIONAL LIFE ASSURANCE CO (92%); SOUTH AFRICAN
INSURANCE ASSOCIATION (92%); SOUTH AFRICAN CLOTHING INDUSTRIES (92%); SOUTH
AFRICAN SUGAR ASSOCIATION (92%); SOUTH AFRICAN EAGLE INSURANCE CO LTD (92%);
SOUTH AFRICAN HOSIERY CO LTD (92%); SOUTH AFRICAN BANK NOTE CO LTD (92%); SOUTH
AFRICAN DRUGGISTS LTD (92%); SOUTH AFRICAN MICRO-ELECTRONIC SYSTEMS LTD (92%);
SOUTH AFRICAN CUT GLASS MANUFACTURING PTY LTD (92%); SOUTH AFRICAN NYLON
SPINNERS LTD (92%); SOUTH AFRICAN PRESERVING LTD (92%); SOUTH AFRICAN
BROADCASTING CORP (92%); SOUTH AFRICAN DRIED FRUIT CO-OPERATIVE LTD (92%); SOUTH
AFRICAN FORESTRY CO LTD (92%); SOUTH AFRICAN TIOXIDE LTD (92%); SOUTH AFRICAN
BREWERIES LTD (92%); SOUTH AFRICAN CAP MANUFACTURERS LTD (92%); SOUTH AFRICAN
FLOCK LTD (92%);   US CITIZENSHIP & IMMIGRATION SERVICES (57%); NORTHWESTERN
UNIVERSITY  (54%); NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (54%);

ORGANIZATION: US CITIZENSHIP & IMMIGRATION SERVICES (57%); NORTHWESTERN
UNIVERSITY  (54%); NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (54%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;SOUTH AFRICA, REPUBLIC OF; UNITED STATES  UNITED STATES (94%);
ZIMBABWE (92%);

SUBJECT: 015-20-10; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REFUGEES
AND EXPATRIATES; DECISIONS AND VERDICTS  POLITICAL ASYLUM (93%); IMMIGRATION
(92%); POETRY (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW
(90%); DEPORTATION (90%); VERDICTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); PASSPORTS
& VISAS (78%); LITERATURE (78%); LAWYERS (77%); REFUGEES (73%); PETITIONS (72%);

 TERRORISM (51%);

PERSON: DENNIS VINCENT BRUTUS  (95%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              230 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              January 14, 1982, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

BLACK POET, AN EXILE FOR 10 YEARS, BATTLES U.S. DEPORTATION TO AFRICA

BYLINE: By DUDLEY CLENDINEN, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 20, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 989 words

DATELINE: BOSTON, Jan. 13


For the last 10 years, since arriving in the United States as an exile after
being shot by the secret police and imprisoned in South Africa, the black poet
Dennis Brutus has been a professor of English at Northwestern University in
Evanston, Ill.

This year, by invitation, he is a visiting professor at Amherst College. But at
the moment he is in Chicago because an immigration judge there has ruled that
Professor Brutus is ''deportable,'' and on Thursday morning he must try to
persuade the court not to send him back to Africa.

''Dennis Brutus Defense Committees'' have sprung up in the academic communities
of Amherst, Boston, Minneapolis and Chicago, where they contend in leaflets that
''if deported, Dennis Brutus will become a target of assassination for the South
African secret police, because of the lifelong battle he has waged against
racism and apartheid.''

While of that danger may be impossible to assess, Professor Brutus a nd his
frien ds cite a book about the South African secret police recently publ ished
in Britain. Called ''Inside BOSS,'' the acronym for the Bureau of State
Security, the book is written by a former agent named Gordon Winters, who
describes the black poet i n one chapter as a man considered by the Government
of South Afr ica to be one of its most dangerous opponents.

Imprisoned in South Africa

Professor Brutus, a man of precise and gentle speech, does not wholly agree with
the way he is characterized in the book. But he notes that last July 31, Joe
Gqabi, a former nationalist guerrilla leader in South Africa with whom he had
been imprisoned, was machinegunned to death in his driveway in a suburb of
Salisbury, Zimbabwe. The Prime Minister of Zimbabwe, Robert Mugabe, has accused
South Africa of the assassination.

As the country of his birth when it was Rhodesia, during a short period when his
parents were missionary teachers there, Zimbabwe is one place to which Professor
Brutus could be deported. His international reputation as a poet and opponent of
apartheid, the system of racial separation, and the possibility that he could be
deported to the region of South Africa, have led to written expressions of
concern and support from the Black Congressional Caucus, the president of
Amherst College and from other Congressmen in Chicago and Massachusetts,
including United States Senator Paul E. Tsongas, Democrat of Massachusetts.

But at a hearing in Chicago in November, a United States Immigration Judge,
Irving Schwartz, upheld the district director's decision that Professor Brutus
was in violation of immigration law and thus ''deportable,'' and adjourned the
hearing until Thursday to allow the poet's attorney to study arguments for
discretionary relief.

'Never Did Anything Wrong'

''The most tragic and moving issue here is the fact that Professor Brutus never
did anything wrong,'' his Chicago attorney, Nasif Mahmoud, said. The Immigration
and Naturalization Service has formally agreed that Professor Brutus originally
fell into violation through no fault of his own. But once ensnared in the
complexities of immigration law, his case has grown more complicated.

As a native citizen of Rhodesia, he carried a British passport, which he used to
make periodic application for the extension of the temporary visa that allowed
him to work as a university professor in this country. But when Rhodesia became
Zimbabwe in the spring of 1980, Britain canceled his passport, and by the time
Zimbabwe issued him a new one, he was late in applying for the extension. Then,
for a period of almost six months, the immigration district office in Chicago,
pleading the confusion of a change in Administrations, said that it could not
find his file.

Meanwhile, he continued to teach African literature under contract at
Northwestern, which threw him into further violation since an alien is not
supposed to work if his visa has expired. Once in that state of illegality, his
only remedy under immigration law was to leave the country and reapply. He could
not do it from within.

''It could have been resolved if he had chosen to leave the country,'' said O.
John Brahos, the chief legal officer for the Chicago district.

Problem on Returning

''My response was that I am willing to do that if I have a reasonable assurance
that I will be allowed to return,'' Professor Brutus said in an interview here
before leaving for Chicago. ''But this the prosecuting attorney has not been
willing to give me.''

The difficulty is that, should he leave the United States, another long and
complicated set of immigration standards, the McCarran-Walter Act, comes into
play.

The act, passed in the McCarthy era in 1952, makes it possible for the United
States to bar anyone who can be considered a Communist or Communist sympathizer.
And Professor Brutus, who was originally arrested in 1963 for challenging the
participation of segregated South African teams in the Olympics, was formally
''banned,'' or put under house arrest there in 1965 under a law called the
''Supression of Communism Act.''

That is now the unknown factor that lurks in the United States Government's
consideration of his case.  Mr. Mahmoud sees in the Government's prosecution of
the case a signal of friendship that the Reagan Administration can send to South
Africa, and Professor Brutus fears that the immigration service has material
from the South African police in its files.

Mr. Brahos, the chief Government lawyer, denies that he has had any expressions
of interest from Washington in the matter.

COUNTRY: SOUTH AFRICA (97%); ZIMBABWE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); AFRICA (93%);

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%);

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (93%); BOSTON, MA, USA (92%);

COMPANY: NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY  (58%); NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (58%);

ORGANIZATION: NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY  (58%); NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (58%);

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH AFRICA (97%); ZIMBABWE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); AFRICA
(93%);   ILLINOIS, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%);   CHICAGO, IL, USA
(93%); BOSTON, MA, USA (92%);

SUBJECT: 014-20-71; BLACKS (N; N-US); DEPORTATION; SOUTH AFR; CA, REPUBLIC OF;
BOOKS AND LITERATURE  DEPORTATION (93%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%);
IMMIGRATION (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); RACE & RACISM (89%); IMMIGRATION
LAW (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); SHOOTINGS (78%); LITERATURE (77%); LAWYERS
(73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (72%); ILLEGAL
IMMIGRANTS (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (70%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (70%);
POLITICS (69%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (68%); CAUCUSES (60%);

PERSON: DENNIS VINCENT BRUTUS  (97%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: photo of Dennis Brutus

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              231 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               January 12, 1982, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

Briefing

BYLINE: By Francis X. Clines and Bernard Weinraub

SECTION: Section B; Page 8, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 905 words


T HE wrenching plight of children of the Orient fathered by American servicemen
is scheduled to reach Congress in the next few weeks, and Representative Stewart
B. McKinney, who has been championing their cause, is faintly optimistic that
the House will finally approve his bill.

Mr. McKinney, Republican of Connecticut, is sponsoring a measure that would
change the ''not-preferential'' status of the children and allow them to apply
to enter the United States under the Immigration and Nationality Act's ''first
preference'' status for unmarried children of American citizens.  The change
would also require the applicants to have American sponsors, but that would not
be very difficult since a range of groups, such as The Pearl S. Buck Foundation
and Save the Children, are actively involved.

''These children will not be coming here to find fathers,'' said Mr. McKinney,
whose earlier bill concerning the children died in the House. ''Many of these
kids are abandoned.''

The Congressman said that both the Carter and Reagan Administrations had been
chilly to his proposal to assist the children, of whom there may be as many as
80,000 in Vietnam, Korea, Thailand, Laos and the Philippines. Officials of the
Reagan Administration have expressed worry about fraud and abuse, Mr.  McKinney
said, and have proposed that any immigration effort should wait until each child
received a blood test, a notion he called ''ludicrous.''

Mr. McKinney said that the measure would not open the doors to mass immigration,
but ''would simply place the Amerasian in his or her proper reference
classification, based on their legitimate claim as a child of a U.S. citizen.''

With 155 co-sponsors in the House, and with a Senate bill supported by such
Republican conservatives as Jeremiah Denton of Alabama and Paul Laxalt of
Nevada, Mr. McKinney is hopeful that his measure will triumph.

''I don't think you can see the pictures and hear the stories of these kids and
not become involved,'' he said.

I N this day of tight Federal budgets and a war on waste in the Pentagon, the
Defense Department's chief spokesman, Henry E. Catto Jr., was asked the other
morning to justify an annual subsidy to the National Rifle Association to
promote target practice. Caught unaware, Mr. Catto asked how much was involved.
Told it was $440,000, he said, almost with a straight face: ''You can't call tha
t a cheap shot, can you?''

A S if the State Department didn't have enough worries, along comes The Crisis
in the American Embassy in Bangkok.  For the last few years, the former American
Ambassador, Morton I.  Abramowitz, maintained a somewhat informal diplomatic
atmosphere.  Most of the senior staff called the Ambassador ''Mort.'' His door
was inevitably open to anyone who wanted to chat. Unlike most ambassadors, Mr.
Abramowitz would dial the telephone himself and invite American journalists over
for a movie or a quick lunch. Around the embassy, many of the men wore
short-sleeved shirts, open at the neck, because of the pulsing heat.

Mr. Abramowitz departed last year; he is now scheduled to take over the American
Embassy in Indonesia. His replacement, John Gunther Dean, promptly made it plain
that the informal days were over.

Mr. Dean, a former Ambassador to Cambodia, Denmark and Lebanon, prefers to be
called ''Sir,'' or ''Mr. Ambassador.'' An embassy officer who showed up
Saturday, his day off, to clean up his desk, was admonished by Mr. Dean because
of his casual appearance.

Mr. Dean even has a young political aide pouring tea now, whenever the
Ambassador has a guest in his office. Mr. Dean prefers his tea hot.

J O-ANN GASPER, a self-described ''pro-family leader'' who edited a publication
called, ''The Right Woman,'' and who opposes Federal assistance to battered
wives and abused children, has just been appointed Deputy Assistant Secretary
for Social Services Policy at the Department of Health and Human Services.

''People for the American Way,'' a Washington-based organization seeking to
counter the influence of Moral Majority, takes note in its current bulletin of a
column that Mrs. Gasper wrote in the March, 1980, issue of the Conservative
Digest, whose publisher is Richard A. Viguerie, the direct-mail expert for many
New Right organizations.

In the column titled, ''Beating Up on the Family,'' Mrs. Gasper wrote that the
concept of domestic violence was so vague that it can mean ''any form of
'belittling' or 'teasing' or 'failure to provide warmth' (whatever that may be -
I guess if you don't set the electric blanket high enough in the winter).''
Francis X. Clines Bernard Weinraub

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); THAILAND (79%); PHILIPPINES (79%); LAO PEOPLE'S
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC (75%); VIET NAM (70%);

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%);

CITY: BANGKOK, THAILAND (79%);

COMPANY: PEARL S BUCK FOUNDATION  (56%); SAVE THE CHILDREN  (56%); SAVE THE
CHILDREN (56%); PEARL S BUCK FOUNDATION (56%);

ORGANIZATION: PEARL S BUCK FOUNDATION  (56%); SAVE THE CHILDREN  (56%); SAVE THE
CHILDREN (56%); PEARL S BUCK FOUNDATION (56%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES  UNITED STATES (96%); THAILAND (79%); PHILIPPINES
(79%); LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC (75%); VIET NAM (70%);   DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA, USA (92%);   BANGKOK, THAILAND (79%);

SUBJECT: 012-20-85; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION; UNITED
STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; MILITARY PERSONNEL; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; FOREIGN
SERVICE; FIREARMS; FAMILIES AN; FAMILY LIFE  IMMIGRATION (92%); LEGISLATION
(90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN
PARTY (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (84%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); GOVERNMENT
BUDGETS (78%); IMMIGRATION LAW (78%); LEGISLATORS (78%); FAMILY (78%);
CITIZENSHIP LAW (77%); ARMED FORCES (74%); CONSERVATISM (72%); DEFENSE
DEPARTMENTS (65%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (65%); FIREARMS (64%); BUDGETS (50%);

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (69%); JIMMY CARTER (55%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              232 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               January 11, 1982, Monday, Late City Final Edition

VISA DISPUTE IMPERILS U.S. MEXICO TIES

BYLINE: By ALAN RIDING, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 3, Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 767 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Jan. 10


A decision by the Reagan Administration to cancel the temporary immigrant visas
of tens of thousands of Mexicans living in the United States has provoked loud
protests in Mexico and is threatening the first storm in relations since
President Reagan took office.

The Government has recalled its Ambassador to Washington, Hugo B.  Mar gain, who
will brief President Jose Lopez Portillo and Foreign Minister Jorg e Castaneda
de la Rosa on the controversy this week.  Mexican labor groups have also
asserted that the Immigration and Naturalizatio n Service is planning ''mass
deportations'' of Mexicans in the United States.

So far, however, both the Reagan and Lopez Portillo administrations have been
careful not to let the problem grow into a major crisis.  ''The issue, as
presented publicly, has been blown out of all proportion to the real facts,''
the American Ambassador, John Gavin, insisted last week. The Mexican Government
said it had been assured there would not be ''massive deportations or
roundups.''

Court Decision Is Root

Yet despite the evident political good will existing between the two
administrations, Washington's freedom to be flexible is limited by legal
constraints. If the law is applied strictly, relations will unavoidably be
strained.

The issue has its roots in a decision by a United States district court in
Chicago accepting the argument of a Mexican national, Refugio Silva, who
maintained that the United States Government's practice of deducting the number
of immigrant visas granted to Cuban refugees from the Western Hemisph ere quota
di scriminated against applicants from other countries.

The court ordered that a similar number of visas - 144,999 - be issued to
citizens of the Americas in addition to the 120,000-person annual quota and the
single country limit of 20,000 a year. This was to take place between Nov. 9,
1979, and Nov. 9, 1981.

Around 200,000 Mexicans were eligible to apply for the new visas and, once they
had become ''Silva class applicants,'' they were allowed to stay and work in the
United States and receive welfare benefits. Of these, however, only 115,271
Mexicans eventually received permanent resident status.
Judge Ends Injunction

On Dec. 24, a district court judge took note that the required number of
additional visas had been issued and he lifted the injunction imposed on the
Immigration and Naturalization Service, which effectively protected the ''Silva
class applicants'' against arrest and deportation.

Soon afterwards, letters started being mailed to those applicants who had not
benefited from the Silva program asking them to go to the offices of the
Immigration Service to discuss their status.  Immediately, protests began to be
heard from Hispanic leaders in the United States and labor groups in Mexico

Until Ambassador Margain was received by a State Department official last
Wednesday, however, the Mexican Government had received no information from the
United States on the subject. ''This is an internal matter of the United States,
but we would have expected to have been warned as a courtesy,'' a Mexican
Foreign Ministry official noted.

Estimates of the number of Mexicans affected vary from 70,000 to 100,000 and,
according to the Mexican Foreign Ministry, Ambassador Margain was told that as
many as 50 percent of those may still be granted immigrant visas through
ordinary channels as a result of having wives, children or other close relatives
who are now United States citizens. ''As for the other 50 percent, each case
will be studied individually,'' the ministry statement said.

Confrontations 'Can Be Avoided'

Faced by a wave of alarmist reports in the Mexican press suggesting an imminent
offensive against ''Silva class applicants'' and other illegal immigrants,
Ambassador Gavin issued a statement last Thursday stressing that ''they are not
being rounded up an herded to the border.''

''Unfortunately, many people speak out on this sensitive and emotional issue
before they know the facts,'' Mr. Gavin said.  ''Others, some of them in the
United States, frequently take advantage of confusion to inflame passions for
their own purposes. If we speak to each other calmly, based on a knowledge of
the facts, these confrontations can be avoided.''

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); MEXICO (99%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (50%);

CITY: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MEXICO; UNITED STATES  UNITED STATES (99%); MEXICO (99%); NORTH &
SOUTH AMERICAS (50%);   MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%);

SUBJECT: 011-20-14; LAW AND LEGISLATION; UNITED STATE INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS;
FOREIGN POPULATION AND FOREIGN DESCENT GROUPS; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION
IMMIGRATION (93%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (91%); LITIGATION (90%); US PRESIDENTS
(90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); LAW COURTS &
TRIBUNALS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); DEPORTATION (89%);
INJUNCTIONS (87%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%);
DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (77%);
REFUGEES (73%); JUDGES (72%); PRODUCT RECALLS (57%);

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (73%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              233 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               January 7, 1982, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

Israel Immigration Unit Curtails Vienna Efforts

BYLINE: Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 6, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 298 words

DATELINE: TEL AVIV, Jan. 6


The official Israeli agency that handles the immigration of Soviet Jews to
Israel said today that it was curtailing its activities in Vienna because of a
dispute with the Austrian authorities.

The organization, the Jewish Agency, accused the Austrian Government of
violating a longstanding agreement giving the agency exclusive access to Soviet
Jews arriving in Vienna. It said that because the Austrians allowed other
organizations to get in touch with the Soviet emigrants, who had been traveling
with visas to Israel, many had been persuaded to go to countries other than
Israel.

The Jewish Agency said it was dropping its use of hostels in Vienna provided by
the Austrian authorities and moving the occupants to hotels. The agency's
representative in Vienna, Baruch Minkowitz, said the Ministry of Interior hung
signs in the hostel Tuesday referring Soviet emigrants wishing to go to
countries other than Israel to a room in the hostel to meet a representative of
the Austrian Red Cross.

The signs, in Russian, gave the addresses and telephone numbers of six
organizations that might help them. The groups included Rav Tov, a Hasidic
anti-Zionist organization in the United States; the World Council of Churches,
and the Tolstoy Foundation of anti-C@ommunist Russians.

In a statement issued in Jerusalem this afternoon, Aryeh Dulzin, chairman of the
Jewish Agency and the World Zionist Organization, said the Austrians had leased
the premises exclusively to the Jewish Agency.

The Austrian move appeared to be a response to Israeli actions to reduce the
rate, estimated to be as high as 85 percent, of emigrants who go to countries
other than Israel.

COUNTRY: AUSTRIA (99%); ISRAEL (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE
(90%); UNITED STATES (79%);

CITY: VIENNA, AUSTRIA (93%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (78%);

COMPANY: WORLD COUNCIL OF CHURCHES  (55%); TOLSTOY FOUNDATION  (55%); WORLD
COUNCIL OF CHURCHES (55%); TOLSTOY FOUNDATION (55%);

ORGANIZATION: WORLD COUNCIL OF CHURCHES  (55%); TOLSTOY FOUNDATION  (55%); WORLD
COUNCIL OF CHURCHES (55%); TOLSTOY FOUNDATION (55%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;AUSTRIA; ISRAEL, STATE OF  AUSTRIA (99%); ISRAEL (94%); RUSSIAN
FEDERATION (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); UNITED STATES (79%);   VIENNA, AUSTRIA
(93%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (78%);

SUBJECT: 007-20-22; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION
IMMIGRATION (92%); JEWS & JUDAISM (92%); RELIGION (78%); HOTELS & MOTELS (71%);
CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (69%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              234 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               January 7, 1982, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

3 Poles Jump Ship in Canada

BYLINE: Reuters

SECTION: Section A; Page 12, Column 5; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 66 words

DATELINE: MONTREAL, Jan. 6


Three Polish sailors jumped ship and sought asylum in Canada today while their
vessel was loading grain in a St. Lawrence River port, immigration officials
said. More than 80 Polish sailors, mostly from fishing vessels, have sought
permission to stay in Canada since martial law was declared in Poland last
month.

COUNTRY: CANADA (94%); POLAND (88%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%);

STATE: QUEBEC, CANADA (57%);

CITY: MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (57%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;POLAND; CANADA  CANADA (94%); POLAND (88%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%);
   QUEBEC, CANADA (57%);   MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (57%);

SUBJECT: 007-20-30; SHIPS AND SHIPPING; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION  IMMIGRATION
(90%); MARINE VESSELS (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); POLITICAL ASYLUM (90%);
HARBORS & PORTS (87%); MARINE SHIPPING (87%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              235 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              January 6, 1982, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

Foreign Worker Ban

BYLINE: Reuters

SECTION: Section D; Page 10, Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 66 words

DATELINE: OTTAWA, Jan. 5


Canada today banned the hiring of foreign workers in mines, on construction
sites, in some factories and for non-specialized occupations to protect Canadian
jobs in a sluggish economy. The ban, announced by Lloyd Axworthy, Minister of
Employment and Immigration, was part of a $50 million program begun last month
to minimize the impact of Canada's growing unemployment.

COUNTRY: CANADA (96%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CANADA  CANADA (96%);

SUBJECT: 006-21-77; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; LABOR; IMMIGRATION AND
EMIGRATION  FOREIGN LABOR (91%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); IMMIGRATION (88%);
RECRUITMENT & HIRING (88%); MINE WORKERS (88%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (85%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              236 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                January 3, 1982, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

IT'S TIME FOR IMMIGRATION LAW REFORM--OR IS IT?

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4, Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1540 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Despite the sporadic, intense focus on specific groups of foreigners who seek
the American dream - Hungarians, Mexicans, ''boat people,'' and now Haitians -
the historical record suggests that only once in a generation does Congress deal
comprehensively with the issue of immigration. The last sweeping revision, the
McCarran-Walter Act, was passed in 1952 and many of its provisions are still on
the books. The Reagan Administration thus had every reason to hope for the best
when it proposed ''omnibus'' legislation designed to control the flow of aliens
across the nation's borders.

But immigration is one of those issues, like criminal code revision and welfare
reform, that are so complex that they tax the institutional capabilities of
Congress. Typically, by the time a subcommittee has mastered the subject, it is
usually too late in the session to pass comprehensive legislation.

President Ford had a Domestic Council Committee on Illegal Aliens which examined
the problems of illegal immigration. After a similar Cabinet-level study,
President Carter sent Capitol Hill a comprehensive set of immigration proposals
in August 1977, but they did not go far. In 1978, Congress established the
Select Commission on Immigration and Refugee Policy, which included eight
members of Congress and four members of Mr. Carter's Cabinet. By the time the
panel completed its work, Ronald Reagan was President, and he appointed an
interagency Task Force on Immigration and Refugee Policy to study the issue yet
again.

The studies agree on the problem - the United States has lost control of its
borders. The proposed solutions are permutations of several components: improved
enforcement of existing laws; penalties against employers hiring illegal aliens;
some type of amnesty for illegal aliens already in the country; an improved
method of identification for job applicants.

The urgency of the problem became apparent again last week when Haitians at a
detention camp in Miami staged a hunger strike.  Authorities said that 100
Haitians escaped from the camp last Sunday when 300 members of Miami's Haitian
exile community stormed the facility, throwing stones and bottles at security
guards. More than 2,100 Haitians are still being detained at various places,
including 588 at the camp in Miami.

Attorney Ge neral William French Smith outlined the Reagan Administratio n's
policy last July. Detailed legislative proposals were not offe red until late
October. Subcommittees in both houses of Congress, und er Senator Alan K.
Simpson, Republican of Wyoming, and Representativ e Romano L. Mazzoli, Democrat
of Kentucky, have completed exh austive reviews of the subject. Senator Simpson
and his staff have be gun drafting legislation, with some indications that
Mr.Mazzoli will introduce a similar proposal in the House.

Emergency Powers?

Optimists at the Justice Department, like David D. Hiller, a special assistant
to the Attorney General, see a consensus emerging in Congress in support of
proposals very similar to Mr. Reagan's.  But Mr. Mazzoli, in an interview,
sounded uncertain about the contents of any legislation and his strategy for
gaining its approval. ''My own personal feelings are pretty amorphous,'' he
said. ''I'm trying my best to halfway understand the subject matter.''

The comments of Mr. Simpson, Mr. Mazzoli and their aides suggest that President
Reagan's proposals, if enacted at all, will be substantially modified. Senator
Simpson appears to favor more severe employer sanctions than were recommended by
the President and freemarket economists on the White House staff. The penalty
suggested by the President - a $500 fine for each illegal alien employee on the
first offense, $1,000 per alien for subsequent violations - is seen on Capitol
Hill as just a tax, and not a very high one. Testimony at Congressional hearings
strongly suggested that the President's proposed procedure for legalizing the
status of illegal aliens would be cumbersome to administer and unattractive to
the intended beneficiaries. After coming forward to identify themselves, the
illegal aliens would have to live here continuously for 10 years before becoming
eligible for permanent resident status, which carries most of the rights of
citizenship. During that decade, the aliens could accept emp loyment but could
not bring t heir spouses and children. Congress is looking for a simpler,
shorter method of legalization.

Many members of Congress share the President's conviction that the Government
needs additional authority to deal with an ''immigration emergency'' such as the
boatlift that brought 125,000 Cubans to Florida in 1980. But some influential
members say they would grant only a small portion of the vast powers requested
by the Administration.

The President wants to be able to restrict travel and shut down harbors,
airports and roads when he determines that the country is threatened with a
massive, unauthorized influx of aliens. Without waiting for Congress to act, the
Administration has already curtailed the flow of Haitians by deploying Coast
Guard vessels to intercept Haitian boats in international waters.

There is likewise support for the Reagan Administration's effort to streamline
the convoluted sequence of administrative and judicial appeals available to an
alien ordered out of the country. But members of Congress who have studied the
issue would not go so far as the President wants to go in curtailing the courts'
power to review decisions on an alien's admissibility.

With the unemployment rate at its highest point in six years, Congressional
aides say it would be exceedingly difficult for the Administration to win
approval of its proposal to admit Mexicans as temporary guest workers. Under the
Reagan proposal, Mexicans would go only into states and industries where state
officials had certified a need. But labor unions contend that such needs often
exist because employers are unwilling to pay high wages.

Continued high unemployment may, however, stimulate support for those parts of
the Reagan program that seek to control and restrict immigration. If members of
Congress clamp down on illegal aliens and illegal immigration next year, they
can tell their constituents that they have taken steps to preserve jobs for
Americans. But even if it passed restrictive new laws, Congress probably could
not find the money to insure aggressive enforcement at a time when fiscal
austerity limits the operations of existing law-enforcement agencies.

President Reagan has asked Congress to enact a package of immigration
legislation including these elements: Emergency Interdiction Act. The President
could order the Coast Guard to intercept foreign vessels bringing illegal aliens
to the United States. Refugees would be eligible for asylum, but other aliens
would be returned to their homeland. Unauthorized Entry and Transportation Act.

Anyone who transported illegal aliens into the United States would be subject to
a fine of $10,000 and a prison sentence of up to five years. Immigration
Emergency Act. After declaring an emergency, the President could close harbors,
airports and roads that might be used by aliens to enter the United States.
Appeal, Asylum and Exclusion Act. The Government would expedite proceedings for
aliens who want to enter the United States, while curtailing rights that they
have under current law. Temporary Resident Status for Illegal Aliens.  Illegal
ali ens who were in this country before Jan. 1, 1980, could apply for new status
as ''temporary residents'' and could become permanent res idents after living
here continuously for 10 years.  Such temporar y residents could take jobs, but
they could not bring their familie s and would not be eligible for welfare or
food stamps. Cuban-Haitian Temporary Resident Act.

Cubans and Haitians who arrived before Jan. 1, 1981, could become permanent
residents after living in the United States for five years. Employer Sanctions
(Unlawful Employment of Aliens Act). An employer who knowingly hired illegal
aliens could be fined $500 for the first offense and $1,000 for each subsequent
violation. The Reagan Administration opposes creation of a national identity
card recommended by some studies. Instead, job applicants are supposed to
''attest'' that they are citizens or legal aliens.  Temporary Mexican Workers
Act. The

United States would admit 50,000 Mexican citizens each year as ''guest workers''
in an experimental program scheduled to last two years. Each state would
determine its need for Mexican labor. Mexican workers would not be permitted to
bring their families.

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%);

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (89%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES  UNITED STATES (94%);   MIAMI, FL, USA (89%);

SUBJECT: 003-22-42; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION; ILLEGAL
ALIENS  IMMIGRATION (93%); IMMIGRATION LAW (92%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%);
LEGISLATION (90%); REFUGEES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES
(89%); LEGISLATORS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%);
TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (78%); FOREIGN LABOR (77%); HISTORY (77%); BORDER
CONTROL (75%); LAWYERS (74%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); LAW
ENFORCEMENT (74%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (70%); CRIMINAL LAW (70%); AMNESTY (69%);
RECRUITMENT & HIRING (68%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (67%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH
(63%); CHRISTMAS (59%);

PERSON: REAGAN, RONALD WILSON (PRES)  RONALD REAGAN (94%); JIMMY CARTER (69%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: photo of Haitians at Christmas Eve mass in Miami

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              237 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                January 1, 1982, Friday, Late City Final Edition

3 Poles Defect in Canada

BYLINE: Reuters

SECTION: Section 1; Page 6, Column 6; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 56 words

DATELINE: PORT CARTIER, Quebec, Dec. 31


The first mate of a Polish freighter, his wife and child applied for political
asylum in Canada today in this port on the St. Lawrence River. Pawel Urbanska,
3O years old, his wife, Lydia, also 3O, and 3-year-old Mickal ''will probably be
granted asylum,'' an immigration official said.

COUNTRY: CANADA (95%); POLAND (73%);

STATE: QUEBEC, CANADA (71%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;POLAND; CANADA  CANADA (95%); POLAND (73%);   QUEBEC, CANADA (71%);



SUBJECT: 001-20-28; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; QUEBEC
(CANADA); SHIPS AND SHIPPING  POLITICAL ASYLUM (92%); MARINE SHIPPING (88%);
IMMIGRATION (87%); POLITICS (85%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              238 of 238 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                January 1, 1982, Friday, Late City Final Edition

FLASH FIRES OF RUMOR KEEP HAITIAN CAMP ON EDGE

BYLINE: By GREGORY JAYNES, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 7, Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 1118 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Dec. 31


A snake, sometimes merely a searing bite from a deer fly, can spark a stampede
in a cattle holding pen. Something unfamiliar brought into a henhouse - a pipe
elbow or a hank of rope are enough to do the trick - will spook chickens into
riot. The flashpoint is even lower at a detention facility for illegal aliens
here: a rumor is enough to drive people wild.

The Krome Avenue Detention Facility, named for the nearest thoroughfare, which
years and years ago was named for a nearby farmer, has no more amenities than a
place for cows or domestic fowl. Its administrators, the United States
Immigration and Naturalization Service, are not proud of it. Seeking shelter as
well as a place for processing the waves of Cubans that hit here in 1980, the
Federal authorities settled on Krome, a closed missile base on the eastern edge
of the Everglades. It was to be a temporary expedient.

It is still in use. The Cuban crush diminished, but the flood of Haitian
refugees continued well into this year. Krome, a hangar an d atent holding camp
with an ''emergency'' capacity of 859 people, by midsummer was housing 1,500. To
relieve the overcrowding, the service was ' 'sponsoring out'' 50 Haitians a day
to relatives or volunteer org anizations. Miami, inundated by 125,000 Cubans the
year before, seein g approaching Haitian boats on the seascape every day,
screamed to t he Federal Government for relief.
'In a Detention Posture'

The resulting threat of Coast Guard interdiction on the high seas, the threat of
a permanent detention facility somewhere in the coldest part of this country and
the end of ''sponsoring out'' have stopped the tide of Haitians. As the year
ends, the naturalization service is in what it calls a ''detention posture.''
And a Haitian named Milus, the father of 10 children, is in his seventh month at
Krome.

''We get up and we eat,'' he said through a translator the other day. ''Then
they put us in the yard. The sun boils us. At midday they send us to eat again.
Then after we eat they send us inside. Then we lay on our beds. I have a Bible
but I cannot read. Some words I understand.''

Milus continued: ''I hold it and I look at it and sometimes I find a little word
that I understand and it stops me from going mad. There is a policeman at the
door and you cannot go out. You have no freedom. Later you can go out and if you
can find some water you can bathe. When I was in Haiti I thought I could work
much more here and support my children. Everywhere in Haiti they speak of
Miami.''

'I Will Carry Your Garbage'

Finally: ''If they would release me, even if there is no work outside, I will
find work. In Haiti you put your head upset down trying to find ways to get
money for your family. Can I clean your car? I will carry your garbage.
Anything.''

Milus (the naturalization service will not permit the use of the detainees' full
names) is one of 650 men still being held at Krome while civil liberties groups'
suits for Haitian rights inch their way through the courts. There are 50 Haitian
women now at the camp. Some detainees have been there as long as 10 months. One
of these, Lucian, believes that rumors drive the people madder than the long
days without a thing to do.

''All the time there are rumors in the yard,'' Lucian said. ''All the time. I
warn the people they talk too much. They listen to stupidities. They have crazy
things they say. People are losing their minds. Prison does that. It makes them
think and say crazy things. It is so crazy you cannot remember. You cannot hold
on to crazy things said to you.''

Start of Hunger Strike

False word of the death of a detainee can burn through the camp like a dynamite
fuse. It happened Nov. 6, putting Krome on edge for days. When someone falls ill
the suspicion is nearly always that he was poisoned. Anyone transferred is
always transferred to a hell much worse than Krome. On Christmas Eve, according
to the detainees, the message with no known origin was, ''Don't eat and they'll
let you out.''

A hunger strike began. On Sunday, 300 demonstrators f rom Miami's Haitian
community, having heard the detainees were fainting from hunger -and this, too,
a rumor - stormed the gate at Krome. Stones and bottles were thrown at guards.
The guards retaliated with tear gas. The demonstrators set small fires in the
sawgrass outside the camp. In the bald yard inside, 150 Haitian me n made a
break. Lucian says it was because the people in the yard sa w the smoke, heard
the commotion and bolted.

They scaled the 10-foot chain link fence at the back of the yard, grabbing the
strands of barbed wire on top and leaving behind little shreds of flesh.

Milus said the guards rushed back to stop the escapes with tear gas. ''A lot of
them were afraid because they had never been gassed before,'' he said, adding
that he had been through disturbances and tear gas at Krome before. ''The gas is
terrible because our eyes burn and our mouths burn and we can't breathe.''

''They don't have gas on La Gonave,'' he said, referring to the island in the
bay of Port-au-Prince from whence he came.
He Believes They Are in Montana

Milus said the gas stopped him from making it over the fence. A hundred men made
it. Milus does not know that. He and the others in the yard think they were
caught outside and taken to a prison in Montana, where they are freezing today.
(For a time, the service considered establishing a detention facility in
Glasgow, Montana, but the idea was abandoned.)

The Haitian said everyone was locked inside Sunday night. He said that on Monday
the immigration officials told them to stop the hunger strike and there would
not be any trouble. So they started eating, he said, giving an esentially
accurate account.

Now they are all back standing in the bright sun. A man named Escanej is telli
ng the latest story. He borrowed $800 from a money lender named Samson in
Port-au-Prince to pay for having himself smuggled to M iami on a plane. He was
supposed to pay it back at $300 a month for a year, such was the interest. But
he was picked up immediately, and has not made a single payment to his cousin,
who wassupposed to t urn the payments over to Samson. His cousin, the father of
six childr en, has since been found beaten to death in a cemetery. Tongues cluck
, and the story flies across the monotonous morning.

COUNTRY: HAITI (98%); UNITED STATES (94%);

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (94%);

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (94%);

COMPANY: US CITIZENSHIP & IMMIGRATION SERVICES (57%);

ORGANIZATION: US CITIZENSHIP & IMMIGRATION SERVICES (57%);

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIAMI (FLA); FLORIDA; UNITED STATES  HAITI (98%); UNITED STATES
(94%);   FLORIDA, USA (94%);   MIAMI, FL, USA (94%);

SUBJECT: 001-20-31; PRISONS AND PRISONERS; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION
IMMIGRATION (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LAW
ENFORCEMENT (76%); NATURALIZATION (76%); REFUGEES (75%); CITIZENSHIP (56%);

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: photos of Haitian refugees

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company
